Occupy Charleston takes over Brittlebank Park for 99 hours
Posted: Oct 19, 2011 4:44 AM PDT
Updated: Oct 22, 2011 12:00 PM PDT


File Photo (WCIV)


CHARLESTON, S.C. (WCIV)-- Brittlebank Park on the Ashley River is the web page of a 99-hour protest for what organizers hope will make a announcement about maintaining Corporate America in charge for our nation's economic problems.


"One of the remarkable things in America is the probability to have free speech. In fact, the founders of the Constitution said we have a right to free speech and free assembly," stated participant Eduardo Curry.
Groups of up to 49 people will protest outdoor Charleston City Hall, banks and different locations over the subsequent 5 days. If the crowds have been bigger, the marches would require a metropolis parade permit.
The crew erected a tent metropolis at the park and are preserving marches, meetings, and even have stay music. Several key audio system will have shows for the duration of a 10-hour "teach in" being held on Thursday. Those who format to attend, say this will be a family friendly, peaceable and effective protest.
"Were being discounted for the most phase as a bunch of long-haired hippie radical college kids. I'm forty some thing years old, somewhat conservative, and I've never been a hippie," stated an authentic Occupy Charleston member, Michael Roberts.
Occupy Charleston is a nearby model of the Occupy Wall Street movement that has spread across the country. Organizers say their intention is to take democracy returned from corporations.
"Corporations are no longer people, and corporations exist to do one issue and one element only and that's to make money.," says protester Dave Crossley, "They're like bears in the woods. They feed, you know? People are extra elaborate and the Constitution starts with 'We the people' and so authorities belong to us not to them."
"Conservatives, liberals, libertarians all agree that there is something wrong."
We talked to authorities elected officers about what they idea about the 99 hour protest.
"I'm greater than happy for any team of Americans to bring together and workout their proper of free speech and assembly; this is what our u . s . was headquartered on that makes our usa great," State Representative Chip Limehouse said.
"There is too a good deal greed and corruption in America and you do not blame one celebration or another, we're all in this together," said State Representative, Wendell Gilliard.
The Occupy Charleston match will start Wednesday at midday and run through Sunday afternoon.