Link: http://www.wvgazette.com/News/201110190148
October 28, 2011
Occupy protesters vow to defy Charleston's request to leave
By Travis Crum


CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Protesters aligned with the Occupy Wall Street movement stated Friday they would defy Charleston's request to halt overnight tenting at the capital city's Davis Park.
Josh Dolin, a protester from South Charleston, said strength used to be cut off to the park Friday evening. The protesters would now not have a electricity furnish for heaters when temperatures start to drop to freezing this weekend, he said.
Dolin said it's an effort by using the metropolis to push the 30 or so protesters out of the park, the place they have been assembled for more than two weeks.
"Most of us are from the mountains," Dolin said. "We can rough it."
Charleston mayoral assistant Rod Blackstone said the protesters were informed ultimate week their remain at the park should no longer be permanent.
"It's just no longer sustainable," he said. "Having an encampment there for the next quite a few months is not an option."
Blackstone additionally stated the protesters were informed final week that the strength would be reduce off because Davis Park is no longer supposed to be furnished with strength 24 hours a day.
He said the metropolis needs the protesters to remain in the park only in the course of the day and that they go away earlier than nightfall.
Dolin stated the protesters have no plans of leaving the web site and will stay there "as lengthy as it takes."
The protesters are assembled at the website in cohesion with the Occupy Wall Street movement that began in New York City in September. Every kingdom has had an Occupy movement, in accordance to the movement's reputable website.
Protesters across the u . s . say they symbolize the "99 percent" of the American human beings suffering because of the economic policies of the wealthiest "1 percent."
The protesters moved to Davis Park about a week ago from their previous encampment at Haddad Riverfront Park. During that time, Blackstone requested the protesters to take down their signs, as nicely as a blue tent shape on a Kanawha Boulevard sidewalk.
Some protesters said they moved to Davis Park to comply with the city's request now not to be at Haddad.
"The people here understand that it is 'united we stand, united we fall,'" said Charles Tyson, a Charleston protester. "If we are taken, then America will step in."
Tyson and Dolin stated they would be arrested if police get involved. Police have been often supportive of Charleston's movement, Dolin said.
"Americans realise matters are fantastically messed up," he said. "If you look at what's going on on Wall Street, each and every time anybody is arrested, we develop in numbers."
Nationally, some protesters have been arrested in cities like Atlanta and Oakland. In the Northern California city, violence broke out until now this week.
Blackstone said communication with the protesters has been cordial.
"I don't assume this is going to change," he said.
As for police involvement, "We'll pass that bridge when we come to it," he said.
Dolin said the crew plans to protest in front of the kingdom Capitol from midday to 3 p.m. Saturday.