Staging a protest on a makeshift stage
Outdoor transforming of 'A Christmas Carol' makes use of actors who have been drawn into the protest movement
December 24, 2011|By Barbara Brotman, Chicago Tribune reporter


The target audience contributors started to arrive, strolling at the back of a man carrying a sign reading, "Where are the jobs created via the tax cuts for the wealthy?"
Occupy Chicago used to be putting on a show.
The set used to be ready. In front of the memorial to Abraham Lincoln in Grant Park, a bench used to be hammered onto pieces of plywood to hold it from being blown over. Rolling wardrobes on the facets had been anchored against the wind by way of backpacks. Scene lists had been duct-taped to the tall columns on each side.
"I like that Abe Lincoln is looking over us," said Teresa Veramendi, looking up at the president's somber, seated figure. "I think he would approve."
"Occupy My Heart: A Revolutionary Christmas Carol," with the aid of writer-activist William Turck, is a present day take on Charles Dickens' "A Christmas Carol":
On a cold, snowy Christmas Eve, an formidable Chicago banker loses his job and his money-hungry girlfriend, encounters a former love who is part of the Occupy movement, is visited with the aid of three spirits who show him painful truths, and finds redemption.
"It sincerely stays noticeably real to the classic Dickens tale of any person who has bought out all their values to the pursuit of cash and isn't always without a doubt happy," said Zach Johnson-Dunlop, 28, who plays the banker.
The action is set amid a protest, and closing week it used to be seen via target audience individuals who had just come from one. The premiere two a single outdoor overall performance Friday afternoon two was coordinated to begin at the quit of a protest march that set out from LaSalle and Jackson.
The small and chilled crowd, joined with the aid of several at a loss for words tourists, watched and on occasion participated, to director Hannah Friedman's delight.
The actors gently shooed away a man who had walked on stage to take close-up photos of what he thinking used to be a actual TV newscast but was without a doubt section of the show. And one Occupy everyday stored becoming a member of the actors portraying protesters in the show.
Turck conceived of the play just earlier than Thanksgiving. As he attended Occupy Chicago's familiar assemblies, he was struck with the aid of how many theater human beings he used to be meeting.
"I thought, 'Boy, if we may want to channel this talent, there may be no better structure of communication, heart to heart, than art,'" he said.
Christmas was a little greater than a month away. And Turck occurred to be a brilliant fan of Dickens.
"On DVD somewhere, I've received simply about each model of 'A Christmas Carol,'" he said.
Turck had his concept. He banged out the script in a week, returned to Occupy's accepted assembly "and tried to persuade people I was once sane."
"He jumped up and said, 'I have written a play,'" said Veramendi, 26, an actress who teaches theater in Chicago schools. "People had been very excited. Everyone cheered.


"It's a gorgeous vehicle to get human beings fascinated and to carry extra human beings into the conversation who might now not come out to a protest two but who might come to a play."
Friedman, 22, who has been an assistant director and stage manager at Lookingglass Theatre Company, Piven Theatre Workshop and Chicago Dramatists, noticed a note on a Chicago theater website asking for actors and a director for an Occupy play. She met with Turck and Veramendi.
"I bought a chance to study the script, and I truely favored it a lot," Friedman said. "He's taken this basic it is almost turn out to be an icon in American tradition two and turned it into a innovative story."
Turck's model differs in one essential respect. "Our banker, Josh, is a likable character. He's now not Scrooge," he said. "His arguments are compelling.
"We tried to be very realistic. We didn't desire to be cartoonish. We clearly wanted people to think."
On Friday, actors changed costumes two all of which covered coats two on stage, in the open. No one used mics, and even though site visitors hummed, sirens yowled and trains whistled, the actors commonly made themselves heard.
The audience, standing in the back of or sitting on the steps up to the memorial, chanted along with the play's protesters and tried to continue to be warm. One younger man passed out chemical hand warmers; another, cookies.
At the end, human beings wiggled upward-raised fingers, an Occupy expression of approval, and gave enthusiastic reviews.
"It was funny, but it also had real events and actions. And I appreciated the turnaround of the foremost character," stated Ryan Griffin, who delivered effective reward for an out of doors overall performance in winter:
"I was surely getting cold, and I wanted to get out of here. But I sincerely wanted to see the play."
"Occupy My Heart" will be performed indoors, for free, at eight p.m. Monday at the Prop Theater, 3502-04 N. Elston Ave., and at 8 p.m. Tuesday thru Thursday at Studio BE, 3110 N. Sheffield Ave.
A radio play the solid recorded used to be to be broadcast at 10 a.m. Saturday on WCPT, 820 AM, at some point of Marshall Stern's "Awakened America" program. A podcast of the show was once scheduled to be posted quickly at bit.ly/uH3oBb.
Link: http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2011-12-24/news/ct-met-occupy-christmas-20111225_1_lasalle-and-jackson-protest-march-actors