Costs of Occupy Oakland disputed but on the rise
Matthai Kuruvila, Chronicle Staff Writer
Published 5:12 pm, Wednesday, November 2, 2011
PHOTO: Clean up of Frank Ogawa Plaza in front of metropolis hall, continues as the Occupy Oakland protesters were compelled out early this morning, alongside with their encampment being dismantled in Oakland, Ca., on Tuesday October 25, 2011. Photo: Michael Macor, The Chronicle


Oakland -- Oakland's police union has estimated that final week's sweep of the Occupy Oakland encampment - which re-established itself inside days - value taxpayers extra than $1 million.
But Oakland officers say they do now not comprehend how tons the town spent to take down 150 Occupy tents at Frank Ogawa Plaza on Oct. 25, easy up the area and then block campers from returning that evening.
With the camp returned in full swing, the financially strapped metropolis continues spending assets and funds on Occupy, and Wednesday's huge demonstration will value the town in public safety overtime, cleanup, lost productiveness of metropolis people and perhaps misplaced income tax revenue.
Every metropolis department has been worried with Occupy in one way or another, according to town spokeswoman Karen Boyd. Homeless-outreach workers have checked on the camp, firefighters have looked for hazards, the finance branch is dealing with various purchases, and the IT branch set up an emergency operations core and also dealt with Web threats to the metropolis website. Everyone in the mayor's workplace is involved.
Following the Oct. 25 police raid, about 20 public works employees spent the day cleansing up the plaza at a value of roughly $4,000. Public works personnel stated replacing the Frank Ogawa Plaza garden by myself will value $30,000.
Councilman Larry Reid said that the use of city resources, which includes heaps of police officers - with some from sixteen outdoor businesses - to clear the camp proved to be a waste. He thinks the town need to not have allowed the campers back.
"What used to be the reason of clearing out the vicinity for fitness and public safety?" Reid said. "We go in, we clean it out, and then we allow them to come back? For what reason?"
City department heads are nonetheless assessing the prices however have remained tight-lipped about the totals. Boyd said this week that it is too early to calculate the total.
In an open letter to residents Tuesday, the Oakland Police Officers Association estimated that remaining week's events value metropolis taxpayers more than $1 million. Police union spokesman Dom Arotzarena stated the estimate was based on what the union believes the city spent on services, such as police overtime, and what the town misplaced in business.
The union letter, which criticized Mayor Jean Quan for ordering a sweep and then allowing the campers to return, stated police had been pressured by way of Quan's combined messages.
Boyd stated tallying costs is specially intricate due to the fact of the unusual nature of the Occupy encampment and the demonstrations occupiers have spawned.
For earthquakes, wildfires and different herbal disasters, Boyd said, there's an event, a metropolis response and a recuperation process. Acts of civil disobedience, on the different hand, generally ultimate no greater than a day.
In the case of the Occupy encampment, "it's now not an emergency in the usual way," Boyd said.
While the costs remain unknown, the Oakl and City Council is having a one-of-a-kind assembly tonight to discuss the thought of permitting Occupy Oakland to keep its encampment on a long-term basis at the plaza.
The suggestion via Councilwoman Nancy Nadel, who represents downtown and West Oakland, asks town departments from police to public works to assist the cause. Councilwoman Desley Brooks joined the campground for two nights and confers with its organizers.
But different council participants are adamant the camp have to go.
"It's clearly unacceptable and irresponsible that we're spending all these assets in downtown ... at the cost of our neighborhoods," stated Councilman Ignacio De La Fuente.