53 of 392 DOCUMENTS
Providence Journal
October 26, 2011 Wednesday
City to searching for peaceable ending;
Protests
BYLINE: Karen Lee Ziner, Journal Staff Writer
SECTION: NEWS; Local; Pg. 1
LENGTH: 604 words
HIGHLIGHT: Officials say they will pursue felony action comparable to that used
against Camp Runamuck


PROVIDENCE As authorities moved against Occupy Wall Street offshoot
encampments in other cities, Providence officials reiterated that they prefer an
imminent, peaceable give up to the Occupy Providence encampment at Burnside Park that
would avoid arrests.
A civil preliminary injunction will be sought based on the same ordinance
violations that routed homeless humans who lived in a city park off Pleasant
Valley Parkway in 2009, in accordance to City Solicitor Jeffrey Padwa. That tent
city was regarded as Camp Runamuck.
The violations in this case encompass trespassing, remaining in the park previous 9
p.m. curfew and sound asleep in the park overnight, Padwa said. No submitting date has
been set; however, Mayor Angel Taveras said Monday he expected it will be filed
within a few days.
The town is nonetheless seeking a everlasting injunction in the Camp Runamuck case, but
Padwa said he believes that the preliminary injunction set a precedent for the
Occupy Providence case. The Supreme Court affirmed that preliminary injunction
in June.
We confirmed a trespass, and a continuing trespass, Padwa said, and this is the
same.
A chambers convention that may lead to a Superior Court hearing on that
permanent injunction request in the Camp Runamuck case is set for Thursday,
Padwa said.
Occupy Providence is one of ratings of grass-roots offshoots worldwide of the
Occupy Wall Street motion in New York City s financial district that centers
on company greed and monetary inequality.
Protesters started out camping in a single day in Burnside Park next to Kennedy Plaza on
Oct. 15. There are now more than 100 tents.
On Monday, facing forthcoming criminal action, some 200 protesters marched into City
Hall to request that they be allowed to remain indefinitely primarily based on free-speech
rights. They introduced a letter with that request to Mayor Taveras and Public
Safety Commissioner Steven M. Par.
Peter G. De Simone, co-counsel for the unnamed defendants in the Camp Runamuck
case, said he believes that the Occupy Providence case can also involve greater serious
issues of a constitutional nature.
(De Simone said he does now not symbolize the Occupy Providence protesters at this
time. De Simone s co-counsel, Neville Bedford, stated Monday he has attended
meetings with Par and some of the protesters, but does now not signify them. The
group has no legal professional to date.)
Any civil action the metropolis would convey towards the Occupy Providence campers
would raise new troubles that would no longer be raised in Camp Runamuck; principally
the rights of assembly and free speech, two De Simone predicted. I have no idea
how these would fare at this point. I wouldn t speculate.
Meanwhile, Par said Tuesday that he d watched news reviews of police arresting
Occupy Oakland protesters and dismantling their tent metropolis in front of Oakland's
City Hall earlier that morning, and noted, two That s what we re attempting to avoid.
Oakland police in riot gear fired tear fuel and beanbag rounds at around 5 a.m.
and arrested seventy five or eighty people, in accordance to posted reports. Oakland Police
Chief Howard Jordan said officers fired tear gas and beanbags after some
demonstrators hurled rocks and bottles at the police.
It s unlucky that they had a wide variety of protesters that acted in that
behavior, in the response to the police, Par said. two It just escalates, and it
ends up getting human beings hurt, each police and protesters two two that s how people get
hurt and that s what we re attempting to avoid.
Par added, It s volatile. All it takes is a couple of people to become
resistant in transferring off the property, and it can turn an otherwise peaceful
crowd into an aggressive crowd like we ve viewed in different components of the country.
LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
NOTES: kziner@providencejournal.com (401) 277-7375
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Providence Publications, LLC
All Rights Reserved