29 of 392 DOCUMENTS
Contra Costa Times (California)
October 25, 2011 Tuesday
Contra Costa Times editorial: Oakland police did correct job in disposing of a public
health hazard
BYLINE: Contra Costa Times editorial two Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group
SECTION: OPINION; Editorials
LENGTH: 481 words


The Occupy Oakland encampment, which started on Oct. 10 and grew into a tent city
with 300 resident protesters, was rapidly and fairly peacefully dismantled
by police in the predawn hours on Tuesday.
There have been a few dozen arrests and anti-police chanting, but a force of at least
200 police had little issue in tearing down the camp in front of Oakland
City Hall alongside with a smaller camp near Lake Merritt. It took much less than 30
minutes to clear away the tents and campers in raids that went smoothly,
according to police.
The want to raze the camps had been obvious for days. Oakland officials reported
rats in the camp, fights, sexual harassment, drug use and some violence against
the media.
The protesters had been given sufficient and explicit warning that the camps were
illegal and wished to be dismantled and masses of time to comply with orders to
end the encampment.
There is no way the city ought to have allowed the camps to suffer and expand
without creating an increasing hazard to public fitness and safety.
Mayor Jean Quan was correct in concluding that "neither the demonstrators nor
the city should keep protected or sanitary conditions, or manipulate the ongoing
vandalism."
Quan additionally thanked the police, fire, public works and different metropolis personnel who
worked over the closing week to peacefully shut the encampment, and the majority
of the protesters who peacefully complied with town officials.
The swift removal of what was turning into a unstable public fitness threat and
potential website online of violence is precise news for both the city of Oakland and for the
protest movement.
Had there been a war of words between the police and protesters that erupted
into violence, that would have been the focal point of media attention, overshadowing
the message of the Occupy Oakland demonstrators.
The protest in opposition to substantial unemployment and company greed used to be being
diluted and obscured through those demonstrating for a host of other causes such as
support for country jail inmates on starvation strikes, housing rights, honest wages
and against social oppression.
For a protest motion to gain traction, it wishes to have a clear center of attention and to
garner the guide of a substantial element of the public. If what the people
perceive is a band of disruptive, violent, unfocused demonstrators, it is likely
that public opinion would turn against the movement.
The dismantling of the camps nevertheless leaves room for the Occupy Oakland
demonstrators to deliver their message. Quan stated the Frank H. Ogawa Plaza in
Oakland will remain open as a free-speech gathering vicinity "for peaceable protest"
from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.
It serves no useful reason for protesters to camp out in a single day nor should
Oakland or any other town allow a practicable public menace to exist. We are
thankful that Oakland did the right element in an environment friendly manner that avoided
violence however did not trample on anyone's rights of free speech or assembly.
LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC:
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved