one hundred twenty of 392 DOCUMENTS
Contra Costa Times (California)
November 2, 2011 Wednesday
Richmond mayor marches to guide Oakland strike
BYLINE: By Karl Fischer Contra Costa Times
SECTION: BREAKING; My Town; Alameda; Contra Costa; News; Local
LENGTH: 323 words


A dozen progressives, led two part way via Richmond Mayor Gayle McLaughlin, on
Wednesday marched from Richmond to downtown Oakland in support of Occupy Oakland
and the general strike.
"It was honestly well worth it," Marilyn Langlois, an aide to McLaughlin, said of
the roughly 10-mile trek. "There used to be a lot of support alongside the way."
The marchers have been ordinarily individuals of the Richmond Progressive Alliance and
carried a banner that study "Occupy Oakland." It took extra than three hours,
marching alongside San Pablo Avenue, to reach the strike's epicenter at Frank H.
Ogawa Plaza.
McLaughlin walked through Richmond with the team before returning to city
business.
"We are marching in cohesion with the Occupy Oakland movement. We stand for
the 99 percentage that the system is failing," McLaughlin stated Wednesday morning.
McLaughlin also took a verbal poke at her Oakland counterpart, Jean Quan, for
allowing Oakland's police department to forcefully roust protesters final week, a
clash that made international headlines.
"We without a doubt are at a crossroads here. As an elected official, you need to know
which side you are on, or you will get caught in the intersection, as Jean Quan
did," McLaughlin said.
The Richmond mayor and different progressives said the widening gulf between rich
and poor, both in terms of cash and influence, frustrates most Americans.
"In Richmond, we have two prominent representatives of the 1 percent," said Juan
Reardon, of the Richmond Progressive Alliance. "We have banks, and we have
Chevron."
The march started out at Macdonald and San Pablo avenues, an intersection that
features a Chevron station and two branches of giant country wide banks. Protesters
unfurled a giant Occupy Chevron banner to accompany their Occupy Oakland banner
before setting off.
"This is the place the '60s and '70s left off," McLaughlin stated as she walked. "This
is the next step. They're honking and waving because they recognize what this is
about. This is the real thing."
LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC: Richmond mayor Gayle McLaughlin walks with a small group representing
Occupy Richmond as they walk up San Pablo Avenue in Richmond Calif. Wednesday
Nov. 2, 2011, organized to make a ten-mile experience to Oakland where they planned
to be part of in a large rally at the Port of Oakland later in the day. The mayor was
only capable to walk about a mile before heading to a meeting.(Dan
Rosenstrauch/Staff)
A small group representing Occupy Richmond stroll up San Pablo Avenue in El
Cerrito, Calif., Wednesday Nov. 2, 2011 all through a ten-mile hike to Oakland where
they deliberate to join a massive rally at the Port of Oakland later in the day. (Dan
Rosenstrauch/Staff)
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved