213 of 392 DOCUMENTS
The Associated Press
November 9, 2011 Wednesday 01:58 AM GMT
Experts question taking pictures of Occupy Oakland filmer
SECTION: DOMESTIC NEWS
LENGTH: 320 words
DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif.


An Oakland man says a police officer shot him with a rubber bullet or beanbag
while he was videotaping last week's standoff between regulation enforcement and a
small team that took over a constructing and lit fires after a day of peaceful
anti-Wall Street protests.
Experts in police use of force who reviewed the pictures Scott Campbell captured
say it appears the volley was unprovoked and inappropriate, the Oakland Tribune
reported Tuesday (http://bit.ly/rQfuLG).
In the video posted on YouTube (http://bit.ly/sFSYJP), Campbell, 30, is heard
calling, "Is this OK?" to a line of riot gear-clad officers. He advised the
newspaper that he was once asking if his distance from them was once ample because an
officer had requested him to step back. A firearm held by way of an officer then is seen
going off, accompanied by using Campbell's yelps of pain.
The Oakland Police Department, which also has been criticized for wounding an
Iraq War veteran throughout an Oct. 25 skirmish, did no longer respond to a request for
comment.
University of South Carolina crook justice professor Geoffrey Alpert said
that until some thing befell off-camera to provoke the officer, the shooting
was "one of the most outrageous uses of a firearm" he'd ever seen.
"Unless there is a hazard that you can't see in the video, that simply appears like
absolute punishment, which is the worst type of immoderate force," Alpert said.
Campbell, who identifies himself as an anarchist, stated he took video of the
confrontation that passed off early Nov. three due to the fact he wanted to file any
instances of excessive force, however did no longer imagine that he would be a target.
Authorities have stated they moved to arrest more than one hundred humans and used tear
gas and beanbags after a small crew of self-proclaimed anarchists entered a
vacant building with bottles and flares and then lit fires in the street when
officers tried to clear the building.
Information from: The Oakland Tribune, http://www.oaklandtribune.com
LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Associated Press
All Rights Reserved