Vol. 5


124 of 392 DOCUMENTS
Contra Costa Times (California)
November 2, 2011 Wednesday
Occupy Oakland Live Blog Nov.. 2, 2011: Protesters call it a night
BYLINE: Oakland Tribune
SECTION: MY TOWN; Alameda; News; Local


7:43 p.m. Protesters hit through car
Protesters marching from Frank Ogawa Plaza to the Port of Oakland have been hit
by a car. The extent of their injuries is unknown.
7:40 p.m. Protesters set up driver test factors at port
The intersection at Seventh and Maritime streets is nearly like a rebel
checkpoint. Every vehicle that comes via is stopped whilst protesters question
the driver, then debate with the larger crew about whether they be
allowed to pass.
"He's a worker," a protester at a car will shout to the group. "He's attempting to
get home."
Then, they watch for the larger answer: "Let him go through," the crowd replies, and
the driver is allowed on his or her way.
Protesters, however, are refusing to let tv news trucks through.
"They work for the 1 percent," the crowd will shout. "We can tell our own
story."
-- Paul T. Rosynsky
7:35 p.m. Protesters try to block news truck from leaving
At Seventh and Maritime streets, protesters argued briefly over whether or not to let a
CBS5 information truck leave the port, with various protesters blockading the path.
Others are urging them to let the truck leave.
7:25 p.m. Google map corrected
Frank Ogawa Plaza is no longer called "Oscar Grant Plaza" on Google maps. The
change used to be interestingly a consumer contribution that has when you consider that been corrected.
7:18 p.m. Port workers attempt to arrive for night shift
The Pacific Maritime Association requested 200 stevedores to work the night
shift at the port, and these workers are making each attempt to get work, said
Craig Merriless, spokesman for the International Longshore and Warehouse Union.
7:15 p.m.: Stragglers proceed to head towards port
At 14th and Broadway, a drum circle and a truck commence heading east on Broadway,
with the intention of circling around City Hall, then heading toward the port.
Hundreds are following.
7:01 p.m. Port people strive to leave
Some port workers categorical seen support for the strike while others became
entangled with testy exchanges with the protesters as the workers tried to leave
the port.
At Maritime Street and Middle Harbor Road, one truck driver said he was angered
by the dozen humans who had occupied the roof of his trailer. His shift began at
4 a.m. and he wanted to get domestic to San Jose.
"It's his truck. He's no longer the problem," said protester Erica Lee, who works at a
coffee import enterprise in West Oakland.
Another protester yelled for the people on the trailer to get off, expanding
that the driver was once paid by means of a truckload and they should not alienate the port
workers.
The crowd, however, was once only getting larger and it appeared the driver would be
stuck there for several hours. A brass band performed on the road outside and one
sign carried up to the trailer said, "Be notable to every other."
"There are some truckers that are possibly noticeably cool with it," Lee said. "I
saw some who had been stoked. But some people are probable getting annoyed."
--Matt O'Brien
6:50 p.m. Meanwhile, lower back at the plaza....
Union workers are hosting a huge cookout.
6:40 p.m. Police chickening out from port
Police are pulling away from the line of protesters at the port. Officers remain
in the command center, but they are no longer longer blocking off the line of bicyclists.
6:30 p.m. Support arrives from county sheriff's office
Vanloads of officers from the Alameda County Sheriff's Department and unmarked
SWAT vans have arrived at the OPD command center at the Port.
Some officers are heading to the close by EBMUD facility.
6:18 p.m. Brief standoff with police, protesters at port
About 50 police officers carrying riot gear have shaped a line at Maritime and
Bataan roads, close to the OPD command center. Some have shotguns with tear-gas
canisters equipped. About a dozen motorbike officers are forming a line behind
them. All the officers appear to be from the Oakland Police Department.
About a dozen protesters on bicycles are facing off in the front of the officers,
including one wearing a bandanna to cowl his face. Other protesters on foot are
heading that way.
6:25 p.m. Crowd grows through thousands
Thousands of humans are continuing to circulation over the bridge onto Adeline
Street, blanketing all four lanes.
The crowd continues to be peaceful. It consists of many bands and children, with no
anarchists in sight.
6:13 p.m: Port workers strive to leave
Some port people are leaving taking 7th Street as a substitute of Harbor Road, which is
filled with people.
Some disputed there was any violence, but blamed the media for reporting it.
6 p.m. Port entrance
About 3,000 of people have been stopped at the port entrance for about 40 minutes,
before transferring into the port. Thousands extra people had been surging over the bridge
onto Adeline Street.
The crowd was peaceful, with human beings playing music, smoking marijuana and
standing on top of vehicles that have been parked in the crowd.