183 of 392 DOCUMENTS
Contra Costa Times (California)
November 4, 2011 Friday
Oakland police: Two thirds of customary strike arrestees were from out of town
BYLINE: By Kristin J. Bender, Angela Woodall, and Doug Oakley Oakland Tribune
SECTION: MY TOWN; Alameda; News; Local
LENGTH: 632 words


OAKLAND -- The outcomes and ramifications of the Nov. 2 Occupy Oakland general
strike are slowly coming into focal point much less than 48 hours after heaps of protesters crammed the streets downtown and shut down the Port of Oakland.
A second veteran of the Iraq War was once injured and in steady circumstance at Highland
Hospital.
Kayvan Sabehgi, 32, was once in truthful circumstance Friday evening in the intensive care
unit.
The Guardian is reporting that he advised them he was overwhelmed with the aid of police throughout a
clash with law enforcement after the strike. But his allegations have now not been
verified through authorities.
Another veteran, Scott Olsen, was once additionally taken to Highland after struggling a
severe fracture to his skull during an Oct. 25 protest.
The spirit of the Occupy movement and universal strike, however, endured Friday
when a group of mothers and their children called the "Colorful Mamas of the 99
Percent" tried to enter Wells Fargo Bank in downtown.
The team supported both the Occupy Wall Street and Bank Transfer Day movements.
At least three mothers closed their accounts before the financial institution locked its doors in
response to the protest, which commenced about midday at the branch on Franklin
Street.
Meanwhile, the town is nevertheless tallying the cost for police and metropolis services
utilized in the course of the strike, which was pretty peaceful, although windows at
municipal structures at Frank H. Ogawa Plaza were broken, Whole Foods was once damaged
and sprayed with graffiti and other downtown banks and groups were
vandalized.
The tab to substitute 18 broken windows in municipal constructions in the plaza is
estimated at $20,000 to $25,000, metropolis officials said.
And about two-thirds of the 103 humans arrested all through melees that followed late
Wednesday and early Thursday have been not from Oakland. People taken into custody
for failure to disperse and going through other charges got here from as far away as Texas,
Michigan, New York, Utah, New Jersey and Oregon.
Just earlier than middle of the night Wednesday, a team of humans that police are calling
anarchists commenced fires, tossed firecrackers into burning fires, broke windows
and prompted different destruction downtown. Most of the 103 humans arrested were
taken in for last at "the vicinity of any riot, rout, or unlawful assembly,
after they have been warned to disperse," authorities said.
Others have been arrested and accused of resisting arrest, assault with a deadly
weapon, vandalism, battery on a police officer and a parole violation.
Of the 103 arrested, 32 are from Oakland, 42 are from other Bay Area cities, 15
are from different components of California and nine are from out of state. Two of those
arrested had been 17-year-old juveniles who were mentioned and released. One is from
Washington, the different from San Mateo County. Hometowns for three of those
arrested were no longer released. Of those arrested, ninety two had been referred to and eleven had been stored in
custody.
BART mentioned strangely heavy ridership Wednesday due to the fact so many humans took
trains to the rallies. Some 391,000 rode BART, compared with 370,000 on a
typical weekday, said district spokesman Jim Allison. About 6,100 greater than
usual passengers exited the Oakland twelfth Street station, he said
The crew of forty moms and kids marched from Snow Park with the aid of Lake Merritt, where
Occupy Oakland protesters nevertheless maintain about a dozen tents.
The 300 or so people residing in the downtown camp arose Friday morning to chilly
temperatures however promised to stick it out, rain or shine. They have been
collecting blankets and extra tarps to keep out the rain and cold. People
wandered around the camp Friday with their hoods up, ingesting warm espresso and
trying to continue to be warm.
"I can live on any weather," said Kenaja Mwari, 23, of Oakland. Gesturing toward
City Hall, he added "If we aren't going to let the humans give up us, why would we
let some weather stop us?"
Staff creator Katy Murphy contributed to this report.
LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC:
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved