310 of 392 DOCUMENTS
Contra Costa Times (California)
November 20, 2011 Sunday
Occupy movements in Bay Area are looking for life after encampments
BYLINE: By Sean Maher Bay Area News Group
SECTION: BREAKING; My Town; Alameda; Oakland-Berkeley; Contra Costa; News; Local
LENGTH: 928 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Growing involved that mayhem is overwhelming their message,
weary Occupy contributors in the Bay Area say police raids on encampments across the
nation have forced a question: How based is the movement on its public
camps?
The 2-month-old Occupy motion stays leaderless, however many contributors have
expressed a wish to see its center of attention move to needs for monetary reform instead
of free speech rights and police crackdowns on encampments. Teach-ins at City
Hall, referendum petition drives and the occupation of neighborhoods and
foreclosed houses are just some of the thoughts being considered as the next
phase of action.
"I'm hoping it is no longer essential to put down tents again," said Jasper Gregory, a
member of Occupy Oakland. "I hope that humans can organize and come together for
a meeting besides having to have humans down there all the time. If we have to
have that encampment, then this can be stopped."
Scott Rossi, 31, a member of Occupy San Francisco, agreed, saying, "We can't
rely on the camps to usually be a permanent fixture.
"So I suppose it is time to start thinking of the camps as the dot at the bottom of
an exclamation point, and the relaxation of the movement as the upstroke. It's time to
draw that line."
Though the protest commenced over economic disparity and corporate have an effect on in
government, Occupy Wall Street has considered tons of the media coverage in the past
month focus on clashes between campers and police, with free speech rights
stealing the highlight as the movement's central issue. Occupy Oakland, Occupy
San Jose and Occupy Cal have considered their encampments forcibly eliminated with the aid of police,
and many protesters have noted police brutality and infringement on their free
speech rights. Occupy San Francisco has obtained many warnings by means of town officials
to disband.
"So we're carrying two torches proper now: social financial justice and the First
Amendment stuff," Rossi said. "It's diluted the message."
Henry Gage Jr., an Occupy San Jose participant, stated work by no means stopped on the
economic issues, despite the shift in media attention.
"If battles with occupiers and the police fall to the background, greater of the
real story will come out," Gage said. "I think people will be pleasantly
surprised."
Despite that, there have been clear issues with public drunkenness, hostility
and vandalism in the camps.
Police crackdowns would possibly be a blessing, many occupiers say, due to the fact even if
encampments are completely stymied, the power they constructed can be redirected
onto a clean slate.
Rossi stated he believes the energy already generated can preserve the movement,
especially if organizers continue the usage of Internet tools, such as Twitter and
InterOccupy.org .
"This is the first Internet-fueled revolution we've seen," Rossi said.
There's talk about breaking the encampments into smaller, more
neighborhood-based occupations. "Occupy the Hood" efforts are underneath way in
Oakland and other cities nationwide.
Talk has also surfaced of shifting the motion indoors or onto private
property.
Occupy Oakland individuals voted days after their eviction from Frank H. Ogawa Plaza
on Monday to cross to Henry J. Kaiser park, throughout from the Fox Theater. Many
protesters see it as a logical step to center of attention on occupying foreclosed properties.
"I'm sure that can be pretty successful in the suburbs," Rossi said, suggesting
an emphasis on getting families lower back into their foreclosed homes.
The first example of a foreclosures occupation was once the short-lived mob takeover
of a foreclosed downtown constructing in Oakland that as soon as housed a homeless
services center.
"That example was once poorly planned and poorly thought-out, which is why it
collapsed," Rossi said.
Should the movement's focus turn to foreclosures, the police response will be
even more complex, stated meantime Oakland police Chief Howard Jordan.
"If they go into a foreclosed home, we have to get the banks or whoever owns the
property to agree they don't favor them there," Jordan said. "If they're in an
open lot, we nevertheless have to get owners' permission to do away with them. When it is on
public property, by using comparison, we have a clear motive to arrest them."
That distinction opens the door, some occupiers say, to higher engaging the
middle class.
"I suppose the important aspect on this is they have the guide of the community,"
Gregory said. "I assume if they take these actions, people want to canvass the
neighborhood. We have to knock on doorways and say, 'This girl who was your
neighbor, we're shifting her lower back in. Are you OK with that?' You have to get the
good will of the neighbors. That's vital, vital to making this work."
Even if pressured occupations fail, different choices abound, Gage said. He said he has
already considered human beings in San Jose parking their cars in public with tents set up
on the vehicles' roofs as a signal of solidarity, and he foresees regular
teach-ins and ballot campaigns surviving the loss of life of encampments.
But many occupiers and observers say the encampments stay a imperative section of
the movement.
"I've acquired buddies who assume this is a disaster, that police have been successful
in evicting camps, that they're going to neuter the motion because it has lost
the one thing they had which used to be predictable: a visible presence," said Robert
Bulman, a sociology professor at Saint Mary's College in Moraga.
As encampments across the nation end up fewer, can the movement continue to exist beyond
the tents?
"That's the challenge," Gregory said. "If you do pull up stakes, how do you make
sure human beings come back and participate?"


Staff author Scott Johnson contributed to this report. Contact Sean Maher at
925-779-7189.
LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC:
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved