Occupy Oakland: inspiration, frustration at return
Matthai Kuruvila and Kevin Fagan, Chronicle Staff Writers
Published 9:30 pm, Friday, October 28, 2011
PHOTO: Volunteers get the interest of the crowd, as activist and filmmaker Michael Moore, (center) prepares to speak to the lots gathered in Frank Ogawa Plaza in front of City hall, as he made a go to to the Occupy Oakland encampment in Oakland, Ca. on Friday October 28, 2011. Photo: Michael Macor, The Chronicle


OAKLAND -- Dozens of new tents sprang up outside Oakland City Hall on Friday, a sight that motivated some Occupy Wall Street supporters however infuriated others, who expressed frustration at the city's about-face on the encampment.
In a count of weeks, Oakland has welcomed campers at Frank Ogawa Plaza, warned them to leave, forcibly removed them, blocked their return and then allowed them to retake the grounds.
"It seems like every different day has a new set of rules," said Greg McConnell, president of the Jobs and Housing Coalition, which represents the city's largest companies.
Asked about the mixed messages, Mayor Jean Quan said Friday she feels the city has been clear. "We're being relatively consistent," she said. "We're asking them now not to camp." A day earlier, Quan used to be booed away via protesters when she tried to make a speech.
On Friday, interim Police Chief Howard Jordan explained the modern-day rule: Police will no longer enter the camp unless there is a call for service.
By Friday evening, the rag-tag conglomeration at the plaza had grown from a few tents in the morning to about 60, and the garden was once blanketed nearly as completely as it had been before Tuesday morning's police raid cleared the camp. At 9 p.m., campers have been placing up tents and building a pathway that followed the route of one in the unique encampment.
The California Nurses Association set up a tent in one corner close to the impromptu day care center, and a small kitchen was once again serving the homeless and different campers.
Impact on business
Nearby, small merchants complained that the camp has hurt their businesses, and they concern that a "general strike" known as by protesters for Wednesday may want to further discourage customers. Meanwhile, huge companies said the avenue protests affected their daily operations, and some Oakland residents stated they were worried that police, busy with protesters, are even less in a position to reply to crimes in their neighborhoods.
What commercial enterprise owners stated they fear is that the camp will devolve into chaos again, some thing some said has already begun.
The proprietor of Sankofa African Arts and Jewelry stated that on the two mornings considering the fact that protesters returned, her the front doorway has reeked of urine.
She said her enterprise has declined through 80 percentage in view that Occupy Oakland began.
"I really, sincerely want them to leave," said the owner, who gave only her first name, Ellen. She has owned her business for 17 years. "What they are doing is making enterprise worse."
A camp supporter overheard her lament and shouted: "You would have lost your business anyway with the way the economic system is going."
Ellen burst into tears.
Moji Ghafouri stated commercial enterprise has gone down 25 percentage at her Caffe Teatro. Protesters additionally smashed one of her windows.
"I'm a small business," she said. "If you are against firms or large business, I'm not them."
Ghafouri said section of the problem is City Hall's doublespeak - like banning humans from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. and then letting human beings camp in a single day anyway.
"If they're not going to put into effect it, don't say it," she said.
Wiljago Cook, 33, who set up her tent Friday, stated the troubles at the camp are endemic to downtown Oakland.
Because of Occupy Oakland, she said, "a lot of things that occur in Oakland have been brought to light."
Occupy Oakland is the cutting-edge demonstration to have an effect on downtown businesses. At two 2010 demonstrations to protest the killing of unarmed BART passenger Oscar Grant, many downtown businesses shut early. A March 2010 protest in opposition to greater schooling cuts closed Interstate 880 all through the nighttime rush hour when marchers moved to the freeway.
On Tuesday, the town recommended commercial enterprise proprietors to ask employees to come in late due to the fact of the deliberate raid of the Occupy camp.
"If there's a protest each six months, no person is going to come downtown," said a property proprietor in the location who works closely with enterprise groups.
Far from downtown, other Oaklanders see the protests as taking up too a whole lot of the city's resources in a time when there are already too few. Parks, activity centers, senior facilities and police have all been reduce in latest years.
Larry Benson, 54, has been unemployed for three years, so he supports the cause. But the North Oakland resident, the chairman of his neighborhood crime council, says the camp is affecting the complete city.
"This mayor must by no means have allowed camping at Frank Ogawa Plaza," he said, whilst additionally criticizing Tuesday's raid and the subsequent clashes with protesters. "It continues to price us. We are having a rash of burglaries over here, and the police are now not responding."
Michael Moore ecstatic
As the camp grew in size Friday, filmmaker Michael Moore flew in to pump up supporters.
As he made his way to the front of the plaza, he was swarmed through many of the gathered 1,000 or so protesters screaming, "We love you, Michael!" and "Thank you!"
Moore's talk was like pouring honey on the plaza. They ate it up, and he clearly loved them.
"Occupy Oakland! Occupy everywhere! I am honored to be here!" he yelled via a microphone.
As he ticked off a litany of the complaints that spawned the Occupy movement - lack of health care, financial disparity, corporate greed, joblessness, reduced wages - the crowd roared its approval.
"This is a leaderless movement with tens of hundreds of thousands of people," said Moore, who flew in to Oakland to tackle a booksellers convention. "Weather is no longer going to quit us."