Occupy Youngstown Protests At Hubbard Well Site
Published: 12/21/2011 12:43 pm two two two two two two
Updated: 12/21/2011 11:30 pm
two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
The Ohio Department of Natural Resources has a permit request for construction of what's known as a brine injection properly off Masury Road near Interstate 80 in Hubbard Township.
That's the place Occupy Youngstown participants staged a protest with their message: There's too many unknowns for the mission to happen.
"The rights of the human beings have simply long gone away. We have no say," stated Occupy Youngstown member John Williams.
Williams and a team of protestors held signs and symptoms in opposition to fracking and an injection well that may want to quickly be placed on Masury Road off Route sixty two D & L Energy would drill the well.
"These chemical compounds never go away. Once those toxins are in our ground, they're right here forever," Williams said.
The brine well, hundreds of ft deep, is where a organisation would dispose of fluids from the oil and natural gas drilling process. ODNR stated there is nearly 150,000 of these sorts of wells in the United States.
Williams stated he feels adequate is not regarded about fracking and the fluids that subsequently have to be disposed. For him, cutting-edge policies aren't difficult enough.
"Fracking and the fuel corporations have had the laws changed for the reason that 2005 to gain themselves," Williams said.
"Our government officials aren't listening to us. They're out for the money, and it is a huge subject for me," said Chris Khuprakob of Occupy Youngstown.
Khumprakob was once no longer at closing week's public meeting the place an ODNR representative shared records and answered questions, however she stands firm that there's not been enough long-term statistics gathered and analyzed.
"I assume we want to study it extra earlier than we begin fracking all over Ohio," she said.
Although the team wants the complete system banned, they realise the likeliness of that happening is slim.
"The extra humans that stand against this the higher the possibilities we have of banning it," Williams said.
The township has requested a moratorium on the construction of the well, however there is no word on any motion yet. As for the permit request, it is nonetheless in the fingers of ODNR.
Williams stated his opposition to fracking doesn't suggest he is no longer for bringing new jobs to the region.
"We'd like to change it with smooth industry," Williams said.
Link: http://www.wkbn.com/content/news/local/story/Occupy-Youngstown-Protests-At-Hubbard-Well-Site/xMkJCMdB_0mmr2p8dhmW5Q.cspx