Eight arrests at Dallas financial institution protest
by MONIKA DIAZ and JONATHAN BETZ
WFAA
Posted on November 5, 2011 at 5:29 PM
Updated Saturday, Nov 5 at 11:52 PM


DALLAS On the day when human beings across the united states of america are transferring their money out of massive banks, eight protesters backyard a bank in Dallas were arrested.
The national motion is referred to as Bank Transfer Day, a response to plans with the aid of Bank of America and different massive monetary establishments to add charges to debit card users.
But it used to be Occupy Dallas protesters growing the scene on Saturday, the place an estimated a hundred and fifty people joined in, marching from bank-to-bank in downtown Dallas.
Police officers had been shut behind, gazing every move.
"We had the banks that we desired to go to, and from what happened at the very beginning, Bank of America," said protester Perry McKnight. "We are going to the banks we already designated, with the people."
The greater regulation enforcement presence accompanied a confrontation between police and protesters in front of the Bank of America building on Saturday afternoon. Officers rushed to the scene to damage up the crowd.
Video supplied by using protesters shows a police officer making an attempt to rip away a flag from one of the protesters. When the man resists, one officer falls and hits his head.
Occupy Dallas informed News 8 that protesters had been standing on the flower beds in the front of the building, chanting, when one obtained of them used to be knocked down.
"The safety shield pushed anyone off the wall onto the concrete," stated protester Meg Hargis. "That started out a snowball impact of police officers coming in and pepper-spraying human beings in the crowd and dragging them out into he street and arresting them."
According to the City of Dallas, when protesters had been ordered to get off the planters, one of them grew to be aggressive and assaulted police.
Eight humans had been arrested. One is expected to be charged with assaulting a public servant and resisting arrest.
The others face other charges, consisting of blocking the sidewalk.
"They have been already legally on a place they had been legally allowed to be, and they were instructed to go lower back and there was once nowhere for them to go," Hargis said.
According to the city, three officers obtained minor accidents in the scuffle.
Investigators are reviewing video surveillance recordings to determine whether additional charges need to be filed.
In Fort Worth on Saturday, about 50 humans showed up to protest massive banks and to urge humans to cross their money to savings unions instead.
Police didn't file any essential trouble, although one man did get a ticket for having a canine besides a leash.
Credit unions document an inflow of 650,000 new customers over the last four weeks, a 13-fold spike from an common month. That equates to more than $4.5 billion in deposits that apparently were eliminated from big banks.