Occupy Dallas strikes protest hub to downtowns Pegasus Park but wont camp there
By ROY APPLETON
Staff Writer
rappleton@dallasnews.com
Published: 22 November 2011 11:24 PM


Days after police ended their continue to be close to City Hall, Occupy Dallas individuals are moving to a extra outstanding base of protests two in the coronary heart of downtown.
They dont design to camp, however to hold a 24-hour presence in and near Pegasus Park, commencing Wednesday.
The park will provide steady publicity in a high-traffic area, protest leader Michael Prestonise wrote in a proposal accepted unanimously by using the groups regularly occurring assembly Monday night. The park, at the intersection of Main and Akard streets, is the fine desire for a new location to optimize the public visibility of our movement.
Hotels, eating places and lofts surround the park. Twenty-three Occupy Dallas demonstrators have been arrested last month for blocking the entrance to a Chase bank nearby.
The have an impact on of and possibilities for the Occupy Movement right here and some place else are unclear. For now, the nearby layout puts protesters at Pegasus Park between 5 a.m. to eleven p.m., when it is open to the public. And it has them taking walks sidewalks close by when the park is closed overnight.
The metropolis of Dallas will have no grounds for our removal so long as we keep presence in the park (during criminal hours) and then proceed on the sidewalk after hours, Prestonise wrote in the proposal.
But lawyer Jonathan Winocour informed the group Monday night time that the town would possibly try to put in force ordinances, such as limits on noise and a prohibition in opposition to attracting a crowd on a sidewalk through loud talking, uncommon acts or exhibitions.
Winocour additionally entreated the group to recognize the park property, to keep away from damaging trees or littering. If you are going to occupy the space, treat it as your home, he said.
Inspired via the Occupy Wall Street movement, the local protesters have delivered wide-ranging messages decrying company greed, the widening wealth hole and a political gadget they say is corrupt and unresponsive to all however the powerful.
Since the first Occupy Dallas demonstration Oct. 6, police and other metropolis officials have said they admire and will guard the protesters rights to free speech and assembly as lengthy as they dont violate metropolis laws.
The town gave the crew a permit to camp at Pioneer Plaza and then let the protesters temporarily settle close to City Hall on Oct. 17 with conditions, such as no fires, cooking, signs and symptoms or bathrooms at the site.
Citing violations and health and safety issues at the camp, the metropolis rescinded the settlement ultimate Wednesday. And early Thursday, extra than a hundred police officers, some in rebellion gear, stepped in, casting off tents and arresting 18 human beings without resistance. The misdemeanor charge: occupying an place closed to the public between nighttime and 5 a.m. The fine: $184.
The loss of the campsite shouldnt be a setback for the group, stated Dr. Lloyd Jeff Dumas, a professor of political economy, economics and public coverage at the University of Texas at Dallas.
They dont have to be sleeping in a park to make a difference, he said.