four of 50 DOCUMENTS
The Dallas Morning News (Texas)
Distributed by means of McClatchy-Tribune Business News
October 7, 2011 Friday
Occupy Dallas protest continues into 2nd day, and die-hard few layout to camp out some other night
BYLINE: Sarah Kramer, The Dallas Morning News
SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS
LENGTH: 385 words


Oct. 07-- A few dozen protesters who marched Thursday as phase of the Occupy Dallas motion are not geared up to give up just yet -- after spending the night downtown.
"I hope that our presence will open people's eyes to what is going on," stated Barrett Carpenter, a 19-year-old scholar at North Lake Community College in Irving. "We came out to continue to be out here."
As many as 500 demonstrators marched via downtown Thursday carrying signs and symptoms condemning corporate greed and chanting for alternate in the government.
Carpenter and Jesse Leatherwood, a scholar at Texas A&M, have been amongst the handful who spent the night backyard the JFK Memorial at Market Avenue and Main Street.
Both had been thinking about going home tonight however plan on coming back.
"We cannot get arrested," Carpenter said. "I acquired to go to faculty and work."
Raul Reyna, a detective with the Dallas County sheriff's office, said there have been no arrests so far.
"The crowd has been working with the police," he said. "We have had open verbal exchange with them."
The protesters have informed police that they will stay put for the remainder of the day and move to a new region tonight. They would want a allow to remain where they are every other night.
While the majority of the crowd dispersed Thursday afternoon following the march on the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, a handful of campaigners nevertheless held posters on the avenue corner.
Satori Ananda, 35, of Dallas held a sign that read, "2gether the ants will triumph over the elephant."
Ananda stated she's willing to continue to be as lengthy as it takes till the elephant is conquered.
"I trust we have a responsibility to get our voices heard," she said. "The solely way to let the government understand is to come collectively and being dedicated to being part of that voice."
Joshua Carmana, 24, walked around with a poster that read, "The corrupt fear us, the honest be part of us."
Though he has to go away for a job interview this afternoon, Carmana said he'd be returned tonight.
"This motion to get what we want is going to take a lengthy time," he said. "When we are serious about things, the greater probable we will get things done."
The Occupy Wall Street protests commenced three weeks ago in New York City and have unfold to extra than 500 cities.
___ (c)2011 The Dallas Morning News Visit The Dallas Morning News at www.dallasnews.com Distributed by MCT Information Services


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
ACC-NO: 20111007-DA-Occupy-Dallas-protest-continues-into-second-day-and-die-hard-few-plan-to-camp-out-another-night-1007-20111007
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
JOURNAL-CODE: DA
Copyright 2011 The Dallas Morning News