Deadline Approaching For Occupy Nashville Demonstrators
Posted: Oct 27, 2011 4:55 PM PDT
Updated: Oct 28, 2011 5:18 AM PDT
by Chris Cannon


NASHVILLE, Tenn. A new policy should have Occupy Nashville demonstrators off Legislative Plaza after midnight Friday. After a lengthy assembly Thursday night, members of the team determined they will no longer willingly leave the plaza.
That state coverage may want to pressure Occupy Nashville contributors to go away the place they have protested for 20 days. Thursday afternoon the Department of General Services put a curfew into effect for the Capitol grounds.
The group, through consensus, determined they will continue to protest on the plaza as they have when you consider that October 7th. They recognize police may try to cast off them from the area.
"There's a contingent of human beings here organized to danger arrest if for some cause the kingdom deems it essential to arrest humans doing that act. And the different contingent who aren't able to danger arrest, will act in guide of these who have been arrested," defined Occupy Nashville member Katy Savage.
The Legislative Plaza, War Memorial Courtyard and Capital Grounds use Policy says, "Effective right now all assemblies and gatherings of humans on the State of Tennessee Legislative Plaza, War Memorial Courtyard and Capital ground location in Nashville, Tennessee shall require a use permit from the Tennessee Department of General Services."
All demonstrations ought to be accredited after an application and satisfaction of use fees.
If granted a permit, demonstrations are solely allowed throughout the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Just after 4:00 p.m. Thursday, kingdom employees posted signs and symptoms around instructing the guidelines of the new curfew saying, no one is allowed on Legislative Plaza from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., which goes into effect on Friday October 28, 2011.
The new kingdom policy additionally requires businesses to now have a permit earlier than they can gather on the Capitol grounds. That permit fee $65 and makes security and insurance plan liabilities the applying group's responsibility.
By consensus, the participants of Occupy Nashville determined they would not apply for a state permit to congregate on Legislative Plaza.