Occupy Nashville protesters to project curfew for third night
Posted: Oct 29, 2011 1:04 PM PDTUpdated: Nov 26, 2011 1:11 PM PST
By TRAVIS LOLLER
Associated Press


NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) - Occupy Wall Street protesters and country officials in Tennessee squared off for a third consecutive night time Saturday, even though a nearby judge has consistently refused to detention center the demonstrators.
The protesters have been galvanized through the friction between nation officials and the neighborhood magistrate. Several new demonstrators showed up at the state-owned plaza close to the Capitol for the first time until now in the day.
Fifty to seventy five humans remained after the curfew that began at 10 p.m. CDT and runs until 6 a.m. Police did now not at once cross in. In preceding nights, the defiance has led to arrests.
The Nashville arrests came after a week of police crackdowns nationwide on Occupy Wall Street activists, who have been protesting monetary inequality and what they name company greed.
Clashes have took place in other cities, which includes Oakland, Calif., Denver and Atlanta.
"My coronary heart has been right here all along, however the arrests gave me the momentum to come," said Vicki Metzgar, 61, director of a Nashville Public Schools science and math initiative. "This (plaza) belongs to us, no longer the politicians."
In Oakland, Calif., an Iraq War veteran was seriously injured for the duration of a protest conflict with police Tuesday night. In Atlanta, helicopters hovered overhead Wednesday as officers in rebellion tools arrested more than 50 protesters at a downtown park. In San Diego, police arrested a similar range of human beings who occupied the Civic Center Plaza and Children's Park for three weeks. And in Denver on Saturday evening, authorities moved into an encampment of protesters and commenced arresting demonstrators just hours after a standoff near the steps of the Colorado Capitol grew to become into a skirmish that ended in police force, along with pepper spray and reports of rubber bullets.
Nashville Justice of the Peace Tom Nelson has stated there is no felony purpose in his town to keep the demonstrators behind bars and he has launched them after every arrest. He has refused every night time to signal off on arrest warrants for greater than two dozen people taken into custody.
Some criminal professionals agreed with the judge.
The arrests regarded to be a violation of First Amendment rights that permit for human beings to peacefully assemble, stated lawyer David Raybin, a former prosecutor. He and others stated the nature of the arrests, coupled with the judge's refusal to signal off on the warrants, may want to end up ammunition for lawsuits.
"The government is exposing itself to serious liability here by way of doing this," Raybin said.
Nelson did now not return an e mail seeking and a cellphone range for him may want to not be found.
State troopers commenced implementing the curfew at the Legislative Plaza on Thursday night.
Others wondered the timing of the curfew. The protesters had been demonstrating for about three weeks earlier than it took effect, a factor that Nelson stated he factored into his decision.
"You cannot pass a curfew mid-protest because you disagree with this crew of protesters," stated criminal defense attorney Patrick Frogge, who is representing some of those arrested.
The country Department of Safety has been carrying out the arrests. Commissioner Bill Gibbons, who until he joined the Haslam administration was once the district legal professional in Memphis, stated he did not have a role in growing the curfew but guaranteed Haslam his department ought to put into effect it.
Gibbons developed a popularity as an able and tough prosecutor in Memphis, the place gang and drug violence have been problems for years. He ran in opposition to Haslam for governor in the GOP primary, touting his law-and-order credential and sharply attacking his multi-million-dollar opponent for refusing to reveal how tons earnings he gets from the family-owned chain of Pilot truck stops.
Cecily Friday, one of the authentic Occupy Nashville protesters, stated the administration's strive to get rid of the demonstrators has "completely backfired."
"Over 1,000 humans have been introduced to our Facebook web page considering that the arrests," she said.
On Saturday afternoon, about a hundred and fifty people showed up for an Occupy Nashville meeting. Lisa Keylon, a metropolis planner, used to be there for the first time. She said she was recently in Atlanta, discussing with pals how unorganized the protests seemed, thinking how lengthy they ought to last.
Then people were arrested in Atlanta, followed by these in Nashville.
"Now people are fired up because their First Amendment rights are being violated," she said.
Among those arrested Friday night time was journalist Jonathan Meador, who advised troopers he was a reporter masking the story for the Nashville Scene alternative newspaper. On Saturday, the proprietor of the newspaper despatched a letter to Haslam's staff.
"I count on the governor to publicly make an apology to him for this violation of his rights and to guarantee the people of Tennessee that this administration will not intervene with the proper to a free press that has been a crucial proper in this united states of america because our founding," SouthComm CEO Chris Ferrell wrote. "I'm certain you understand that each media outlet in this us of a will vigorously defend our proper to cowl authorities action barring worry of arrest or reprisal."
___
Associated Press Writer Kristin M. Hall contributed to this report from Nashville.
Names of Protesters Arrested on October 29, 2011
Autumn R. Dennis, 20, LaVergne; Shanley F. Deignan, 22, Nashville; Laura E. Wallace, Nashville; Jonathan P. Meador, 26, Nashville, (Public Intoxication); Sarah M. Passino, 35, Nashville; Malina M. Shannon, 34, Smyrna; Michael Anger, 30, Lexington, Ky.; Elizabeth Sharp, 20, Murfreesboro; Shannon D. Brown, 39, Lebanon; Lindsay K. White, 24, Nashville; Paula E. Painter, 55, Cumberland City; Diane L. Wilde, 64, Lebanon; William S. Woods, 64, Columbia; Chris G. Corley, 52, Lebanon, (Criminal Impersonation, Public Intoxication); Tyler A. Lawson, 25, Mt. Juliet; Sarah E. Matlock, 26, Antioch; Jeremiah M. Carter, 19, Bellevue; Joshua D. Estes, 28, Hermitage; Brett N. Flener, 21, Glasgow, Ky.; Lauren M. Plummer, 24, Nashville; Scott D. Akers, 42, Madison; Michelle F. Muldoon, 23, Nashville; Mark A. Vanzant, 22, Murfreesboro; Benjamin S. Warner, 34, Nashville; Stevens Anthony Taylor, 18, Nashville; Benjamin C. Spencer, 22, Old Hickory.