Hundreds march to Occupy Nashville
Protesters speak out, decry corporate greed
4:24 AM, Oct 16, 2011 two | two
SAMUEL M. SIMPKINS / THE TENNESSEAN
Written by
Jennifer Brooks | The Tennessean
Occupy Nashville Rally at Public Square Park: More than 200 rally in Public Square Park for Occupy Nashville Saturday.
Lora Criner holds a Stop The Greed! sign as she marches throughout an Occupy Nashville protest that commenced Saturday at Public Square Park outdoor the Metro Courthouse and looped via downtown. / SAMUEL M. SIMPKINS / THE TENNESSEAN


Hundreds of marchers from across Tennessee converged Saturday in Nashville to protest what they see as a united states where corporations have more of a voice in authorities than residents do.
Occupy Wall Street, Occupy Nashville, occupy the whole thing and by no means provide it back, protesters chanted in the course of a city-sanctioned march that threaded a six-block loop between the Metro Courthouse and Legislative Plaza.
The march was once one of many held in cities round the us of a and globe to help the ongoing Occupy Wall Street protests in New York. A small crew of protesters in Nashville has been occupying Legislative Plaza for the past week and plans to proceed doing so indefinitely.
Before the march came a rally, in which individuals took turns sharing their stories. Three generations of the Warren family drove down from Lobelville, Tenn., to say their piece.
Michael Warren took his vicinity in the middle of the gathering and spoke his piece the protesters chanting back each and every sentence so his phrases carried to the some distance edges o f the crowd of 200-plus.
Things are now not right, and they dont show up to be getting better, said Warren, who wrote to his senators and Rep. Marsha Blackburn but said he acquired solely form letters in response to his story. The family lives in Perry County, where the unemployment price hit 25 percentage in 2009. Warrens spouse and daughter operated a thriving small business that went underneath when the economy tanked.
Were doing everything right and have been getting nowhere, said his daughter, Emily Weight, whose company, Nanas Jetpack, bought toddler carriers that she and her mom designed and sewed, transport them to shops around the country. Im here due to the fact I favor some change.
'Keep it peaceful'
Saturdays rally was once an orderly affair. Marchers threaded up Deaderick Street to Sixth Avenue, looped around to Union and marched returned to the courthouse. There was no seen police presence, and the marchers took pains to remain on the sidewalk and stick to the route outlined on the allow issued through the city.
I sense human beings here are clearly sincere about looking a exchange for peace and justice, stated Salina Khan of Murfreesboro, who came to the rally with her husband and daughters Fatima, 9, Aleeza, 5, and Sakina Razzaq, four The ladies colored her protest sign: United Against Injustice.
When it was Khans flip to speak, she entreated the crowd: Dont let them divide us with the aid of religion, race or social class. We will win if we stay as one.
Over the past week, Occupy Nashville has made itself at domestic on Legislative Plaza. Newer and lower-key than its Wall Street counterparts, the group affords its individuals with food, shelter, and clinical and legal assistance as they camp out on the challenging granite of one of Nashvilles most public places.
The Southern Festival of Books obligingly carved out a house for the occupation this weekend. Sleeping bags and tables of food are tucked away in the back of the festivals tents and overall performance spaces.
We want to maintain it civil, keep it peaceful, keep it mature, stated protester Phillip Schlicher, standing next to a table of donated meals and a signal outlining the rules for participating in the protest: Throw away your trash and recycle your recyclables; appreciate others who use the plaza; talk for yourself, not the group.
Occupy Nashville is a leaderless organization, with choices made with the aid of team consensus and anybody who desires to take part can come down and take part in the each day assemblies, held at 1 p.m. on weekends in the plaza and 7 on weeknights.
Jacob Kaset, a Nashville landscaper, comes down to the protest each and every night time after work. It reminds him of the Vietnam protest era.
I have no concept the place this (movement) is going, however we cant hold going the way we are, he said. Where human beings are working a job and a half and they nevertheless cant make ends meet.