Baton Rouge's first Occupy demonstration held downtown
Show caption
MARK BALLARD
Capitol information bureau
October 24, 2011


About 70 people carried signs and chanted slogans through the downtown streets Saturday as phase of an Occupy Baton Rouge rally.
With his 10-month-old daughter, Twyla, slumbering in a tummy carrier, organizer Chris Chemel, of Baton Rouge, yelled out the cadence: Banks got bailed out. We acquired offered out.
The crowd marched previous the closed fundamental offices of Capital One and Chase banks. Downtown Baton Rouge was generally empty, besides for purchasers staring at the LSU-Auburn football sport on the television sets in bars and restaurants.
Chemel said that massive multi-national banks have set policies that harm working people. He advised customers to shut their money owed at the large monetary institutions and, instead, do enterprise with neighborhood banks and deposit unions.
Carrying signs and symptoms reading, Not all people can be CEO and Ill accept as true with companies are human beings when Texas executes a corporation, the team marched previous the LSU Shaw Center for the Arts to the levee by using the USS Kidd Veterans Memorial & Museum. Some employees got here out of their businesses to watch the procession and wave.
The Occupy Wall Street protests, which began in New York two months ago, have spread to cities around the world.
In London, a team calling itself Occupy London Stock Exchange camped outside the Cathedral of St. Paul, main church officials to shut down the well-known landmark. Also on Saturday, about 4,000 marched on the streets of Frankfurt, Germany, protesting banking policies of German economic institutions, in accordance to information reports.
Protesters at these events, generally, have questioned the equity of authorities and corporate policies that financially assist organizations that continue to lay off workers, expand expenditures and cringe at paying greater taxes.
Similar Occupy protests have been held in Lafayette, New Orleans and Shreveport. This used to be the first such event in Baton Rouge.
Bruce Blaney, of Baton Rouge, used to be among the 125 who gathered at the State Capitol prior to the march. He attended a similar protest on Oct. 15 by using MoveOn.org. He stated that whilst a handful of those attending the Occupy rally on Saturday were at the MoveOn match closing week, most were not.
After the march, the last individuals lower back to the State Capitol and sat on the steps to figure out their next move.
Nathan Anderson, an LSU political science major, led the dialogue using Roberts Rules of Order as the crew debated how to deal with subsequent Saturdays event.
Occupy Wall Street organizations around the country prefer to hold simultaneous occasions at each of the countries country capitols on Saturday, Oct. 29. Occupy businesses from round Louisiana are planning to come to Baton Rouge, Chemel said.
Local organizers pointed out that the eighth annual Louisiana Book Festival takes place in and round the State Capitol at the equal time.
The group on the steps took a vote and a majority decided to go next Saturdays event to a park close to the USS Kidd, as an alternative than disrupt the e book festival, Chemel said.
The crew additionally voted to permit some of their variety to gather at the park round Huey Longs grave on Friday to distribute statistics to humans attending the Live After Five live performance at close by A.Z. Young Park on Third Street, he said.
Chemel and Bryan Perkins geared up Saturdays Baton Rouge protest through social media such as Facebook. Both stated they are no longer affiliated with different Occupy groups. But participants of the different organizations have been contacting them, Perkins said.
He and Chemel met a couple of weeks of in the past when they, independently, commenced to arrange an event in Baton Rouge, Perkins said.
Chemel said he realizes Baton Rouge is a very conservative town and felt his voice was once now not being heard. Perkins said he had a similar feeling.