34 of 43 DOCUMENTS
CNN Wire
October 14, 2011 Friday 6:06 PM EST
'Occupy' protests swell nationwide; dozens arrested
BYLINE: CNN
LENGTH: 1252 words
DATELINE: NEW YORK (CNN)


NEW YORK (CNN) -- two Protests swelled in cities nation-wide Friday, as police forces around the united states of america struggled to either corral or get rid of demonstrators from downtown parks and plazas in the ultra-modern development of the month-long "Occupy Wall Street" movement.
Dozens have been arrested in Denver, San Diego and New York, whilst similar demonstrations have been scheduled to take location in Washington, Orlando, Atlanta and Detroit. CNN iReporters sent in photos and video from "occupy" protests throughout several American cities.
In San Diego, CNN affiliate KFMB broadcast snap shots of police detaining demonstrators as they gathered amid tents and tarps strewn about a downtown plaza.
Protesters appeared to refuse to leave the area, sitting in columns atop the tarps and yelling, "Stay down" as police tried to put off them from the scene.
In Denver, authorities say 24 humans have been arrested as CNN affiliate KMGH broadcast aerial video of police detaining protesters in a downtown area of the city.
Colorado State Police patrol spokesman Mike Baker stated the demonstration could be damaged down into two awesome groups: The first was a part of what he described as the unique "Occupy" group, which maintained close conversation with regulation enforcement. The second, he said, was once a greater "radical" faction.
"These were the ones (police) got here into bother with today," Baker said.
Most in Denver have been charged for illegal behavior on nation property, he added, while one different man or woman used to be charged for simple assault. Another protester was once arrested for impeding traffic.
In New York , Police Department Deputy Commissioner Paul Browne stated police had arrested 14 demonstrators, after they sat down in roadways and blocked traffic, overturned trash bins, knocked over a police scooter and hurled bottles.
Wesleyan University pupil Ben Doernberg, who attended Friday's protest in Manhattan's economic district, shot video of at least one other demonstrator being hauled to the floor by using police.
The video captures a police officer pressing his night time stick against the lower back of the protester's neck in the course of the arrest, whilst the man is seen faced down on the pavement.
The protester can be heard screaming in what Doernberg described as an formerly incident in which the man's leg was allegedly run over by means of a police motorcycle.
"I saw a wide variety of different human beings being shoved or pushed with batons," Doernberg said. "I saw some other officer punching people."
New York police have been now not right away available for remark on the allegation and CNN cannot independently confirm the claim.
Later on Friday, hip hop mogul Russell Simmons called the demonstrations "inspirational."
"People choose this u . s . to be better," he informed CNN. "They want the money out of Washington," adding that he believed the U.S. government remains mostly controlled via corporations.
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said until now Friday that Brookfield Office Properties -- the real-estate company that owns Zuccotti Park, regarded a home-base for protesters -- made the choice now not to clear them out after the organization used to be "inundated" with threatening calls from elected city officials.
The mayor said throughout his weekly commentary on New York's WOR Radio that he didn't know which officers allegedly made the threats, but that the business enterprise decided to work out some form of a negotiated agreement with protesters in the coming days.
Bloomberg brought that whilst he lacked first-hand expertise of the conversations, he was instructed the officers typically threatened to "make existence extra difficult" for the real-estate company.
Brookfield Properties issued a assertion later Friday saying "a number of nearby political leaders" requested the cleansing of the park be deferred for "a short length of time."
The cancellation averts a broader showdown between authorities and demonstrators, who seemed heartened via information of the cancellation.
"We are triumphing and Wall Street is afraid," protester Kira Moyer-Sims said in a written announcement disbursed by the group. "This motion is gaining momentum and is too big to fail."
Bloomberg's office introduced previously that the real-estate firm withdrew their request made until now in the week for police help all through the scheduled clean-up operation.
"Our position has been steady throughout: the City's position is to protect public fitness and safety, to put in force the law, and assurance the rights of all New Yorkers. Brookfield believes they can work out an arrangement with the protesters that will ensure the park remains clean, safe, on hand for public use and that the situation is respectful of residents and groups downtown, and we will proceed to monitor the situation," stated Deputy Mayor Cas Holloway.
The demonstrations have been primarily peaceful, though there had been fears of a standoff between police officers tasked with clearing the park and protesters who stated they would not budge.
City officers in New York had in the beginning ordered the protesters to leave by 7 a.m.
But the demonstrators mopped, accumulated trash and scrubbed the pavement in the dead of the night time as the Friday closing date neared for them to go away the premises for a cleanup. When the word of the postponed cleansing filtered through the more than 1,000 protesters who crammed the park, they have been elated.
The protesters, who have been chanting "All day! All week! Occupy Wall Street," known as the development a victory and deliberate to proceed their passive resistance, "We're extremely excited.This is an example of what human beings energy can do," Tyler Combelic, a spokesman for Occupy Wall Street. "This is what democracy is all about in this country,"
Protesters descended on the privately-owned park near the New York Stock Exchange on September 17 to protest the nation's unwell economy.
"You desire to smooth up something? Clean up these crooks on Wall Street," stated City Council Member Charles Barron.
Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn said the pass to clean the park was once a "ruse" to quit the protest.
Bloomberg instructed protesters Wednesday that the choice to clean the park used to be made after owners voiced concerns about "unsanitary stipulations and substantial put on and tear on the park."
"The mayor is a sturdy believer in the First Amendment and believes that the protesters have a right to continue to protest," Holloway stated in an before statement.
But the scenario in the park is "not in the great hobbies of the protesters, residents or the city," he said.
The format had been to easy the park in stages, and protesters would be allowed to return to the park as areas were cleaned if they obeyed the policies set forth through the owners, Brookfield Properties, the assertion said.
"The park has no longer been cleaned in 4 weeks, a system that is usually undertaken each and every night," Brookfield said in a statement. "Our purpose is to hold the park clean, safe, and handy to all."
Zuccotti Park used to be built for the well-known public, however the weeks-long protest has raised issues amongst vicinity enterprise proprietors and residents about sanitation.
The protest campaign commenced in July with the launch of a marketing campaign website calling for a march and a sit-in at the New York Stock Exchange.
For about a month, demonstrations have addressed such problems as police brutality, union busting and the economy, the crew said.
Organizers have taken idea from this year's Arab Spring protests that swept through North Africa advert the Middle East. Crowds have taken up house in the park in New York's monetary district, and organizers have referred to as for 20,000 human beings to flood the area for a "few months."


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
NOTES: Update 1:55 p.m. provides Orlando amongst cities predicted to have demonstrations, graf 2, highlight, adds contrib lines
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Cable News Network
All Rights Reserved