Occupy ball street
Rush for STD tests
By LAURA ITALIANO, FRANK ROSARIO and BOB FREDERICKS
Last Updated: 10:39 AM, November 1, 2011
Posted: 12:26 AM, November 1, 2011
EXCLUSIVE


Its the Autumn of Love!
Occupy Wall Street protesters are flocking to nearby health clinics for STD and HIV trying out after getting their freak on in 60s-style hookups with crusty strangers, sources advised The Post yesterday.
Last week was once free love, said a clinical professional at a health facility placed a short walk from Zuccotti Park, referring to the number of people who organizers have referred for sexually transmitted sickness testing.
A volunteer at the park admitted subject among protesters about STDs.
We supply instructions to clinics if humans ask for information regarding STDs, said the volunteer, who identified himself only as Captain and added that being pregnant checks are also a hot item.
Like something else, it happens. People ask, and we do the first-rate we can for them.
Volunteers at the scientific tent hand out cash, normally $15 or $20, so the randy radicals can visit clinics that cater to a low-income clientele, the source said.
Experts said its the right component to do.
My recommendation for the protesters would be to exercise safer sex. Its a lot less expensive to purchase a condom than get treated for an STD, stated Dr. Lisa Oldson, scientific director of Chicago-based Analyte Health, which offers trying out offerings for labs nationwide, such as STD Test Express New York.
Also yesterday, a man who was once punched in the head by way of a NYPD deputy inspector met with prosecutors to strive to have the cop charged with misdemeanor assault.
Nobody is claiming that this is the crime of the century, but what he did ... was assault, stated Ron Kuby, the lawyer for Felix Rivera-Pitre, who was hit via Deputy Inspector John Cardona in an incident caught on video.
Meanwhile, extra than 100 protesters joined closing nights Halloween Parade in Greenwich Village, with quite a few dressed as corporate zombies.