1 of 4 DOCUMENTS
Associated Press Online
December 13, 2011 Tuesday 11:44 AM GMT
Protesters halt operations at some western ports
BYLINE: By TERRY COLLINS and MARCUS WOHLSEN, Associated Press
SECTION: DOMESTIC NEWS
LENGTH: 1051 words
DATELINE: OAKLAND Calif.


Heady with their successful tries to block trucks and curb commercial enterprise at busy ports up and down the West Coast, some Occupy Wall Street protesters diagram to continue their blockades and maintain staging comparable protests.
Thousands of demonstrators compelled transport terminals in Oakland, Calif., Portland, Ore., and Longview, Wash., to halt parts of their operations Monday and some intend to maintain their blockade attempts ramped up overnight.
At least one backyard observer who has observed political movements for many years stated the port blockades were an indicator of the disruptive activities probable to proceed for months and proper till next year's presidential elections.
The movement, which sprang up this fall in opposition to what it sees as corporate greed and financial inequality, targeted on the ports as the "economic engines for the elite." It comes weeks after police raids cleared out most of their tent camps.
Protesters are most upset by means of two West Coast companies: port operator SSA Marine and grain exporter EGT. Investment banking massive Goldman Sachs Group Inc. owns a predominant stake in SSA Marine and has been a general goal of protesters.
Demonstrators say they are standing up for workers towards the port companies, which have had latest high-profile clashes with union workers. Longshoremen in Longview, for example, have had a longstanding dispute with EGT, which employs employees from a extraordinary union to staff its terminal. The longshoremen's union says the jobs rightfully belong to them.
In Oakland, some 1,000 protesters stated they had been decided to remain at the port overnight.
While the protests attracted a long way fewer humans than the 10,000 who turned out Nov. 2 to shut down Oakland's port, organizers declared victory and promised greater demonstrations.
"Mission accomplished," said protest organizer Boots Riley.
Mike King, every other Occupy Oakland organizer, stated demonstrators had voted to remain at the port until at least 3 a.m. Tuesday to block any sudden shifts of longshoremen to offload the three ships that were not noted Monday.
"We had made a promise to the relaxation of the occupiers that if there was violence we would extend the blockade," stated King. "So in the spirit of solidarity, we're going to proceed till tomorrow."
Oakland Mayor Jean Quan pleaded with the occupiers to go home and permit the longshoremen and truckers get on with their livelihoods.
"People have to think about the consequences," she said. "People have to suppose about who they are hurting. They are saying, `We favor to get the interest of the ruling class.' Well, I think the ruling category is in all likelihood laughing, and people in this city will be crying this Christmas. It's sincerely received to stop."
Police in Seattle used "flash-bang" percussion grenades to disperse protesters who blocked an entrance to a Port of Seattle and eleven demonstrators were arrested.
Officers moved in Monday evening after Occupy Seattle protesters tried to set up a makeshift barrier near the entrances to two terminals, using scraps of wooden and aluminum debris.
Police Detective Jeff Kappel said demonstrators blocked traffic and hurled flares, bags of paint and other debris at officers and police horses. He says one officer was dealt with through medics after a bag of paint hit his face.
In Portland, a couple hundred protesters blocked semitrailers from making deliveries at two principal terminals.
Security concerns were raised when police discovered two humans in camouflage clothing with a gun, sword and walkie-talkies who said they were doing reconnaissance.
In Alaska, Occupy Anchorage protesters showed harmony with their West Coast counterparts via focusing on port issues, even though they took a special tack in Alaska's largest city.
Rather than attempt to shut down the port which is only open two days a week and Monday was no longer one of them protesters assembled to spotlight what they said used to be mismanagement and the proposed expansion of the Port of Anchorage, which handles most items fed on by Alaskans.
Todd Gitlin, a sociologist at Columbia University and an authority on social movements, said the Occupy movement is relatively ambitious and would proceed to extend and diversify. He has stated that the 1960s anti-war motion grew steadily for years until bursting onto the world stage at some stage in the election year of 1968.
"I would assume that the motion these days is going to be representative of what's going to be happening from now on," Gitlin said. "There will be extra of a tendency towards militant disruptive activity. There's going to be a wide variety of coordinated moves and this is going to go on for months."
Some port officials lament the loss of pay for longshoremen and truck drivers, who are not among the nation's rich elite and protesters would say are amongst the 99 percent.
"Today's disruptions have been high priced to port employees and their households in terms of misplaced wages and shifts," Port of Oakland spokeswoman Marilyn Sandifur. She noted that the Oakland seaport is the fifth busiest container port in the United States and supposed to open as normal Tuesday morning.
Gitlin said whilst the Occupy Wall Street movement is no longer as focused as the Sixties protests in opposition to the Vietnam War, it is in many ways extra ambitious.
"The aim of the anti-war motion ought to be agreed upon by each person who took part in it," he said. "There used to be a convergence. This is a long and deep procedure to combat against the power of the wealthy. That was once a massive social convulsion that worried tens of millions of people; this present movement has that potential, however it will be a long time earlier than we recognize how a long way it goes."
Some longshoremen supported the Occupy Oakland protesters, even though they misplaced a day's wages. But some of the truck drivers who had to wait in long traces as protesters blocked gates stated the demonstrators have been harming the very humans they were attempting to help.
"This is joke. What are they protesting?" stated Christian Vega, who sat in his truck carrying a load of recycled paper. He said the prolong was costing him $600. "It only hurts me and the different drivers.
"We have jobs and households to help and feed," he said. "Most of them don't."
Associated Press writers Beth Duff-Brown in San Francisco, Christina Hoag in Long Beach, Calif., Nigel Duara in Portland, Ore., Manuel Valdes and Doug Esser in Seattle and Dan Joling in Anchorage, Alaska, contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Associated Press
All Rights Reserved