Occupy Long Beach, cops hold peace
Lincoln Park protesters pick up tents nightly to observe metropolis rules
By Eric Bradley and Tracy Manzer
Staff Writers
Posted: two two 10/25/2011 09:57:40 PM PDT
Updated: two two 10/25/2011 10:53:16 PM PDT


A Long Beach police officer patrols the Occupy Long Beach camp at Lincoln Park in Long Beach, Calif. on October 25, 2011. (Jeff Gritchen / Staff Photographer)


LONG BEACH - As police in Oakland cleared a camp of Occupy protesters Tuesday, individuals in Long Beach's offshoot of the anti-Wall Street movement operated in a detente with law enforcement at Lincoln Park.
Speaking towards what they called the "tyranny" of giant banks and corporations, Occupy Long Beach has settled into a sample of small, lounging protests through day, gathering after enterprise hours in larger numbers and, for the die-hard adherents to the group, hanging their tents and transferring to the sidewalk after 10 p.m.
The ongoing time table agreement was once reached through session between police and leaders of the now 11-day-old occupation of the park next to City Hall at 333 W. Ocean Blvd.
Long Beach Deputy Police Chief Robert Luna said the coverage itself used to be created after learn about of the city's ordinance that bars tenting in parks and public spaces.
He described the ensuing policies as association however respectful in regard to what protesters can and cannot do.
"Our purpose is to enable them to workout their First Amendment rights without being in violation of the town ordinance," Luna said.
Though protesters can slumber at night, there is no real sleep for the weary at Lincoln Park in the eyes of the law.
"They can relaxation for a while, however they have to wake up and walk round periodically," Luna said.
Protesters this week credited police for working with them, however complained about the floodlights that have been used at night time to illuminate the park.
Among their demands of government was once a name for restoring policies governing firms that have been reduce over the final few decades.
"A company is unaccountable to people," said Jonathan Allen, 26, of Seal Beach.
Small groups and banks cannot compete against conglomerates such as Wal-Mart and Bank of America in the existing generation of deregulation, he argued.
"The analogy is a pro-football participant geared up, geared up to tackle an fundamental school football player," Allen said.
A 27-year-old girl who recognized herself as Sunrise pointed to vacant office house around Lincoln Park and stated she shows up out of a desire to rebuild the community.
"I believe you cannot exchange the world except you trade the neighborhood you live in first," she said.
Besides attracting attention to its cause, Occupy Long Beach, like different chapters nationwide, has additionally attracted section of downtown's homeless population.
"They're flocking to us for the free food," said Allen.
Some homeless take part in the protests or keep signs, while others squabble with protesters for what they view as their "territory," in accordance to Allen.
"They need to recognize they're part of the 99 percent," Allen said, including that organizers are considering a move to every other metropolis park.
Criminal incidents at Lincoln Park have been sporadic, officers said.
The few protesters who have been arrested for tenting in the park after 10 p.m. have been given verbal warnings and blatantly violated the policies agreed upon by way of officers and Occupy Long Beach representatives, police said.
Sunday night, after police experimented with turning off the floodlights at night, two protesters had been arrested for home violence, and a homeless couple fought over a cellphone and have been arrested for allegedly making terrorist threats, Luna said.
Luna was once grateful for the relative peace in Long Beach, thinking about different cities have skilled much less cooperative, more civilly disobedient protesters.
"We've had some issues with a few individuals getting into officers' faces and attempting to pressure confrontations, but the sizable majority have been respectful and so have the officers," Luna said.
eric.bradley@presstelegram.com, 562-499-1254
tracy.manzer@presstelegram.com, 562-499-1261
Follow Eric Bradley on Twitter at http://twitter.com/EricBradleyPT