Protesters and community speak out at Lincoln Park with Occupy Long Beach
October 21st, 2011 two No Comments two Uncategorized



Protesters march across 4th Street in downtown Long Beach as phase of the Occupy Long Beach movement rallies that occurred on Oct. 15 and Oct. 16.
Stephanie Raygoza
Staff Writer


Long Beach residents and community organizers took to the streets and gathered at Lincoln Park in the citys downtown district ultimate weekend to protest in harmony with the Occupy Together movement. The Occupy Long Beach occasions culminated on Sunday with two arrests and two different citations after a wide variety of participants came to disagreements with the police officers who tried to usher them out of the public park.
The cause of the non-violent, non-partisan movement, which continues to unfold throughout the country, is to protest corporate greed. Following the Declaration of the Occupation of New York City record and intending to assist symbolize the disadvantaged ninety nine percentage majority that is struggling from an unfair international economy, the heaps of sign-wielding protestors chanted and expressed their worries over the one percentage of company America that they accept as true with have come to run the government.
In light of the New York City General Assembly occupying Wall Street in Liberty Square, greater than 250 students, neighborhood advocates and educators occupied and rallied in the citys monetary district Saturday morning. The crowd then marched to Lincoln Park for the standard meeting that persevered properly into Sunday, as humans commenced putting up transient shelters at night.
In a press release despatched to the Signal Tribune via match coordinators, nearby organizer Tammara Phillips echoed the occasions reason and said, We are a grassroots, nearby motion in solidarity with Occupy Wall Streetwe are the 99 percent. Cal State Long Beach pupil and organizer Ben Fisher attended the protests and stated he had labored closely with the City earlier to make certain that participation in the motion was as transparent as possible.
Still, Fisher said that he and the different organizers in no way acquired the perfect cooperation and partnership from the City, and in an e mail sent to countless news shops on Oct. 17, he described many situations in the course of the evening when police officers would harass protesters over the manner in which they may want to occupy the park.
Before sundown, the City set up three sets of floodlights jogging on loud transportable generators, Fisher wrote in the email. Between the brightness of the lights, the droning of the generators, and constant harassment by way of the LBPD, Occupy Long Beach used to be up all night.
In a press launch recapping Saturdays events, the Long Beach Police Department (LBPD) characterised the demonstration as a show of mutual recognize between police and the demonstrating community with demonstrators in a position to specific their First Amendment rights to freedom of speech while obeying all applicable laws.
The LBPD issued some other press launch on Oct. 17 to illustrate the result of Sundays demonstration. Police officers said that as the night neared 10pm, the hour in which the park closed, the team grew to approximately 75 in attendance and have been warned to disperse. Most topics proceeded to exit the park and cross onto the sidewalk, then again police officials made the choice to arrest 30-year-old Jason James and a minor for failing to comply with the request to vacate the park.
According to the press release, the team chanted and yelled in defiance of police whilst they searched other tents in the park. Lakewood resident Louis Rodriguez and Seal Beach resident Jonathan Allen had been issued citations and released at the scene.
Colleges also partook in the Occupy Together movement, which includes Long Beach City College (LBCC), which coordinated Occupy LBCC on Monday nighttime and set up a similar encampment at the Liberal Arts Campus lawn. The Occupy Los Angeles event took area the evening of Oct. 19 when occupiers marched from Olvera Street.
At the Oct. 19 Long Beach City Council meeting, 5 supporters of the Occupy Long Beach movement spoke or referred to the motives for being concerned in the movement throughout the public-comment portion. Voicing their guide of the movement, 1st District Councilmember Robert Garcia addressed the noise and air pollution of the lighting generators, and eighth District Councilmember Rae Gabelich cautioned that some modification of the non-camping statutes be considered, according to Phillipss email and validated Thursday by using Gabelich.
Protesters march throughout 4th Street in downtown Long Beach as part of the Occupy Long Beach movement rallies on Oct. 15 and 16.


Link: http://www.signaltribunenewspaper.com/?p=12050