John Hopperstad Q13 Fox News reporter
10:30 p.m. PDT, November 5, 2011


Occupy Seattle calls for supporters to break up with their banks
Nationally, the motion is calling for supporters to cross to community banks, credit score unions
SEATTLE
Occupy Seattle held a rally in aid of National Bank Transfer Day at Westlake Park at 1 p.m. Saturday. The Occupy movement requested supporters to close their bank accounts at business banks and open debts at community-based banks and credit score unions.
"We can't let the fox watch the henhouse anymore," activist Susan Wilkinson said. "They don't self-police and they do not behave responsibly."
A variety of supporters went into the downtown Seattle Chase financial institution to shut their accounts. The crew marched in a peaceable and orderly way. Police were present and officers did no longer need to intercede with the group.
Many of the protesters who transferred banks as phase of the event knew for a long time beforehand that they would be making a change, but needed the motivation.
"I did not have the power to exchange and go via all of the paperwork, but as I started turning into extra politically aware, I got the energy," Wilkinson said.
A large section of the Occupy motion has focused its criticism on giant banks that many supporters trust are responsible for the contemporary downturn. Citing the bank's "corporate greed" and function in the uptick in home foreclosures that have took place over the direction of the past few years, Occupy supporters accept as true with that physically moving their financial assets will send a message to the banks.
The message they are sending to banks is succinct: "It's now not me, it's you," Amelia Vasser said. She took section due to the fact of the country wide movement.
"I've considered them chargee me ridiculous fees, re-arrange transactions so they may want to cost me the most quantity in overdraft things," Vasser said. "I have no criticism with my branch, the criticism is with company arrogance, the grievance is with corporate Chase."
On their website, Occupy Seattle posted that the team believes that we want to support economic institutions, like local banks and savings unions, that make investments in our communities, make loans to small businesses, and help create jobs. There is no motive to continue doing enterprise with the Wall Street banks that crashed the financial system and have achieved little to help the country recover. Every greenback we take returned goes in the direction of constructing a new backside line that potential correct jobs and healthy communities.
Today's rally included performances by means of singer Jim Page, the trip-hop group Surrealized, Americas Got Talent alum Jen Seaman and comedians Travis Simmons and Nigel Larson.