Joe Redner: "I suppose I have to pay greater taxes"
6:21 PM, Dec 18, 2011
Written via Ashley Porter two two two two two two two two two two


TAMPA, Fla. -- Joe Redner's the man at the back of a lot of Tampa agencies - perhaps none more famous than the Mons Venus strip club.
"They undertax the wealthy and I'm one of them," he says. "I'm one of the one percentage and I assume I must pay extra taxes. They use the excuse that there won't be jobs if we tax the rich. The money that I go away in my commercial enterprise they don't tax."
That's why he is lending a hand, and the park he owns in West Tampa, to the Occupy movement.
"They're feeding people in the park. I simply love that to dying that they're helping people," Redner said on Saturday.
On Saturday, Occupy Tampa set up for the first time in Voice of Freedom Park, providing meals and clothing donations to the surrounding local in collaboration with Food Not Bombs.
"It's all of us who did not know every different two months ago, so it is without a doubt thrilling to suppose about the possibility that this could manifest anywhere," stated David Morris, who works with Occupy Tampa's media team.
Jonathan Skinner first joined the Occupy movement in Dallas, then headed to Austin, New Orleans, Gainesville and, finally, Tampa. He sees Occupy Tampa as a strong movement that, mainly in the wake of dozens of arrests over the ultimate two months, has lacked a genuine public house to unfold its message.
"The fact is they do not have a park," Skinner says. "Their resilience here is amazing."
That's why even though Voice of Freedom Park is not genuinely being occupied - it is extra of a community gathering area for the motion - it nevertheless helps Occupy Tampa greatly. They can use it to help the neighborhood while figuring out what path their movement goes next.
"Now we're kind of at the stage where we have to without a doubt buckle down, determine what we're about, and begin accomplishing things," Morris says.
And they're completely happy to have Redner's guide behind them.
"What we need to do is get this united states of america on the right footing with the aid of taxing the human beings that can manage to pay for to pay the tax and helping the human beings that do not have the jobs," Redner says.
Link: http://www.wtsp.com/news/article/226891/8/Mons-Venus-owner-lends-park-to-Occupy-Tampa