Occupy Wall Street Movement Spawns Louisville Protest
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -
The Occupy Wall Street movement, now in its 18th day in New York City, is expanding.
The protests are showing up Boston, Los Angeles and even in Louisville.
Occupy Louisville said their act of civil disobedience will go on indefinitely until they get regulation to cast off company impact on the federal government.
Click Like For Louisville News Updates:
Nearly 100 protesters gathered in the downtown commercial enterprise district Tuesday due to the fact they're no longer thrilled with the federal government.
Occupy Louisville isn't always focused on any specific businesses, but their mission is in line with Occupy Wall Street's.
"We share their vision. You can't have a democracy it really is compromised with the aid of the have an effect on firms having whole control over your government," said Curtis Morrison.
Not every person gathering is absolutely on board with their movement -- Jim Coyle agrees with some of the message however doubts the strategy, pronouncing he receives ambiguous solutions when he asks protesters their demands.
"I don't hear any solutions and it truly is what bugs me about this. It's just, 'I desire more. I choose more. I don't choose the prosperous human beings having it and I'm staying here until I get it,'" Boyle said.
Staying is what Karla Alfonso said she plans on doing till huge corporations get taxed greater like she wants.
Alfonso delivered a sign and a sturdy dedication to the rally.
"I took off work for two days, so I'm planning on spending the night time if everyone else is," she said.
At the Brooklyn Bridge protest this past weekend, over seven hundred human beings were arrested, elevating concerns for some.
"I hope we do not see that trouble here in Louisville," stated Morrison.
Louisville metro police Lt. J.T. Duncan stated they have more officers in vicinity in case anything will become violent or disruptive, but as lengthy as it's peaceful, they won't bother their First Amendment rights.