Posted: 5:51 p.m. Monday, Oct. 17, 2011
Reed extends order permitting Occupy Atlanta protestors
By Richard Elliot
ATLANTA


Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed has prolonged his govt order allowing Occupy Atlanta protestors to continue to be in Woodruff Park thru early November. Reed's in the past order would have expired at 11 p.m. Monday that means protestors would have had to dismantle their tents right away and vacate the grounds once the park closed.
In a assertion Reed said, " Civil disobedience is an splendid shape of expression, supplied that it is peaceful, non-violent and lawful. As of today, the Occupy Atlanta protesters continue to bring together in a peaceful, non-violent fashion in Robert W. Woodruff Park. Therefore, I have prolonged the Executive Order permitting Occupy Atlanta to continue to be in Woodruff Park after the park closes. This Executive Order is high quality via the adjournment of the next Atlanta City Council assembly on November 7, 2011."
Earlier in the day, about forty Occupy Atlanta protestors marched down Peachtree Street for a rally in guide of struggling downtown businesses.
At that rally, Channel 2's Richard Elliot requested the protest leaders what would appear if that government order expired.
"We are geared up to get arrested," stated Occupy Atlanta's Tim Franzen. "We never requested for permission to occupy the park. two It's an unlawful occupation, and we're not moving."
The Atlanta City Council met Monday however did now not take up the occupation issue, its unclear what will show up in November. Councilman Ivory Young Jr., who helps the country wide Occupy movement, chastised local protestors for what he sees as a lack of direction.
"We're preoccupied with this whole thinking of are we going to arrest or not," stated Young. "How about the complete premise of Occupy (Atlanta)? two We take a seat here day after day and speak about will we or won't we arrest. two How about the premise of some salient factors that assist to body that agenda?"
Even Occupy Atlanta protestors say they are demonstrating in opposition to a range of things, the entirety from economic inequities to company greed to the conceivable closing of the Pine Street homeless shelter to struggling downtown businesses.
Reed introduced in his declaration that the city will preserve a watchful eye on the protestors.
"The Executive Order does no longer avert the city from responding at will to changing prerequisites in the park or to any public protection issues. The city is organized to act unexpectedly have to the situation in the park so warrant," the statement said.