Atlanta News two 12:55 p.m. Wednesday, October 12, 2011
Occupy Atlanta | Protesters vow to continue to be in park
By Christian Boone and Jeremiah McWilliams
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


Occupy Atlanta protesters vowed Wednesday to continue to be in Woodruff Park even beneath threat of arrest.


Enlarge photo
John Spink, jspink@ajc.com Occupy Atlanta activists proceed to occupy Woodruff Park on Wednesday morning.
Enlarge photo
Curtis Compton, ccompton@ajc.com As about one hundred fifty protesters stood outdoor the Bank of America on Peachtree Street on Tuesday afternoon, a safety shield escorted employees from the building. Scott Brown of Duluth was amongst the marchers, who say they are protesting company greed.
Enlarge photo
Curtis Compton, ccompton@ajc.com A group of extra than 100 calling themselves Occupy Atlanta protesters set up a barricade around their tent metropolis as they gathered in Woodruff Park in Atlanta on Monday, Oct. 10, 2011.




"We will occupy this park at the cost of being arrested and put into jail," a spokesman for the crew stated at an eleven a.m. information conference. "We will now not commit any acts of violence."
The "occupation" used to be in its sixth day Wednesday with no signal that police had been getting ready to take any action.
Police maintained only a low-key presence, both at the park and for the duration of a late afternoon march to the Midtown offices of the Bank of America, which drew about 50 humans from the park and perhaps one hundred who joined en route. By 5:30 p.m., the marchers had dispersed, with some heading returned to the park trailed by way of about six police officers on motorcycles.
Robert Derenthal, 21, of Marietta, a student at Kennesaw State, advised the AJC Wednesday he had been at the protest considering that Saturday in the hopes that "others will begin to make their voices known about the abusive practices of Wall Street and investment banking and banking for the duration of this u . s . ... that humans want to start to recognize there are motives why we have such high unemployment in this country, underemployment, why humans are being thrown out of their homes, why there has been no recuperation and it's time for that frustration to get out into the streets."
Meanwhile, Mayor Kasim Reed instructed members of the City Councils public protection committee that, while the town needs to recognize the demonstrators right to categorical their views, they cannot be allowed to camp in the park indefinitely.
This has acquired to bought to come to a close at some point, Reed said. At some point, we have to act.
Reed said the team calling itself Occupy Atlanta is negative the public park and violating Atlantas laws, and to pass by it opens the door to more law-breaking in the future.
I do worry that we are putting precedents, Reed said. Giving exemptions to the law is developing a actual hassle for us.
Committee chair Ivory Lee Young Jr. stated he favored Reeds concerns, however he cautioned that arresting protesters would possibly be unwise.
Arrests, at this point, dont serve any of our purposes, he told Reed throughout the meeting.
Reed said his body of workers had conducted a specified assessment of how other cities had dealt with the Occupy Wall Street offshoots, and would be prepared to short the City Council on Wednesday.
Boston police made countrywide headlines Tuesday morning via arresting greater than 100 protesters who have been attempting to amplify their encampment from a park to an adjacent roadway greenbelt. Video confirmed black-clad officers hauling away protesters who chanted, We are veterans of the United States of America! An American flag that had curiously been knocked from the hands of one protester lay on the ground as these close by chanted, Shame, shame, shame!
In Atlanta, meanwhile, a spokesman for Reed stated the city will no longer right away attempt to destroy up the protesters encampment, which on Tuesday afternoon numbered about 30 tents. As long as theyre there peacefully, for the time time being, have been going to enable them to stay, stated Reese McCranie, the mayors deputy director of communications. That may also exchange in the future or may additionally not change.
One camper applauded the decision. I suppose its great, said Phil Aliff, 25, a student at Kennesaw State University. I hope they let us stay here indefinitely. Our facet can win if we proceed to bring human beings out.
Occupy Atlanta, rallying against company greed and the conflict in Afghanistan, set up stakes in the park Friday night. The crowds dimension diverse thru the weekend.
Reed said the protesters have him with a list of demands. They choose the park renamed for Troy Anthony Davis, the man performed last month for murdering a Savannah police officer. Second, the protesters want Reed to camp with them overnight in the park. Third, they prefer assurances that they wont be arrested.
Reed said he used to be praying about whether he ought to sleep in the park. But he refused to give assurances that no one would be arrested.
As for renaming Woodruff Park? Thats no longer going to happen, Reed said.
Staff photographer John Spink contributed to this article.