Posted: 5:55 p.m. Friday, Oct. 14, 2011
Mayor working to discover Occupy Atlanta solution
ATLANTA


Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed's office says he will decide the subsequent step as soon as his executive order allowing the Occupy Atlanta protestors to stay in Woodruff Park expires Monday night. That order offers demonstrators the capability to stay in the downtown park after 11 p.m. Under that order, protestors ought to cast off their tents by 5 p.m. Monday and vacate the park by 11 p.m. The office stated before Friday that the expiration of that order used to be never intended to be a challenging deadline, but introduced as soon as that time comes, Mayor Reed will reevaluate the situation and make his final determination.
This comes after Occupy Atlanta 's leader, Tim Franzen, advised Channel 2's Richard Elliot that they had no plans to depart the park by means of eleven p.m. Monday.
"We will be equipped for non-violent civil disobedience," stated Franzen. "We have commitments from specific civil rights leaders to stand here with us, to sit down d very own and link arms, and to be dragged off and despatched to jail if it's what the mayor wants."
The city hopes to avoid the kind of violent confrontations considered in New York City the place police officers and demonstrators clashed in the streets in full view of cameras. two NYPD officers and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg came underneath criticism for their coping with of the situation.
Franzen instructed Elliot he believed Monday was a difficult closing date and was once determined to stay in the park past it. Still, he invited Mayor Reed to come down and talk with the demonstrators.
"We'd love to have his support," he said. "We'd love to have his endorsement. two We think the voices that we're trying to carry up are the voices of his constituents."
The crew marched Friday evening from the park to a homeless refuge on Peachtree and Pine streets, blocking site visitors on the downtown streets.
Some of Occupy Atlanta 's neighbors are also developing frustrated with the demonstrations, and informed Elliot they would like to see the city cross in and shut them down.
"It's truely annoying," said Katelyn Caccavale, who lives throughout the avenue from Woodruff Park. "Our walls are paper thin, so each night, we hear them screaming and yelling and banging their bongos."
Maryam Ahmed works downtown and said she helps the protests and the mayor's choice not to go in.
"I'm happy they're out here," she said. " I believe in the motion all throughout America."
No phrase when the mayor will make a decision whether or not to lengthen that govt order to permit the protestors to remain.
As Occupy Atlanta 's occupation of Woodruff Park enters its 2nd week, no one is exactly positive how plenty the demonstrations are costing Atlanta's taxpayers, though APD admits it is costing something.
In an emailed received with the aid of Elliot, Atlanta Police spokesman Carlos Campos stated it was just too early to inform the specific expenditures. But he confirmed it is costing taxpayers some money.
"There is no question that supplying police presence to top ensure public safety surrounding the Occupy Atlanta movement requires an multiplied expenditure of sources and funding," said Campos.
But Campos went on to say Atlanta Police are nicely equipped to deal with this demonstration, due to the fact it has a lot of experience managing giant scale events.
"The Atlanta Police Department automatically handles large-scale events, a great deal large in fact, than these protests," he said.
"On any given weekend, there are heaps of hundreds of humans in the metropolis of Atlanta for expert and collegiate sports, alternate shows, conventions, festivals, and cultural and creative events. two Before any event that requires extra APD presence, the department evaluates the assets required for the match and for city-wide coverage. The department is performing this equal evaluation concerning Occupy Atlanta and planning beforehand for the indefinite period of the protest."
Campos additionally ensured that APD will continue to grant for public safety throughout the rest of the city.