9 of 114 DOCUMENTS
The Associated Press State & Local Wire
October 12, 2011 Wednesday 9:44 PM GMT
Protesters can continue to be in Atlanta park until Monday
BYLINE: By ERRIN HAINES, Associated Press
SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL
LENGTH: 413 words
DATELINE: ATLANTA


Mayor Kasim Reed will allow Occupy Atlanta protesters to stay in a downtown park until Monday.
Reed issued an govt order Wednesday at 5 p.m. permitting the Occupy Atlanta demonstrators to remain legally in Woodruff Park until the adjournment of the Atlanta City Council assembly on Monday, in accordance to the mayor's office. The demonstrators have been in the park illegally for the past 6 days, in violation of a town ordinance.
"As mayor, I am proud of the town of Atlanta's heritage as the birthplace of the civil rights movement," Reed stated in a assertion released by using his office. "At the identical time, I am committed to protecting the public and ensuring that the laws of the metropolis are respected. I will not allow public security to be jeopardized in any way by the protesters. So far, all of their moves have been peaceful and nonviolent."
The state of affairs has created a predicament for town officials and police who have asked them to leave. The city has not enforced the ordinance, allowing the protesters to remain.
Occupy Atlanta spokesman Tim Franzen said he was once completely happy to hear of the government order, but that they would no longer be deterred and diagram to hold their ground.
"We're in a position right now where we sense like both way, we're doing what we need to do," Franzen told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "When we get evicted, there will be people who will put their our bodies on the line nonviolently and go to jail."
Franzen stated King's legacy has additionally factored into his strategy, and that the Atlanta protest is specific from those in different components of the country.
"We're in Martin Luther King's backyard," he said. "Our leaders realized decades ago that we can't find the money for to brutalize protesters here."
The Occupy Atlanta protesters left the park temporarily Tuesday to march to the Atlanta headquarters of Bank of America. The crew swelled to nearly 200 at the bank plaza.
The protests are section of a developing national motion opposing corporate greed and other ills. About 50 protesters in Boston had been arrested Monday night time when they omitted warnings to cross from a downtown greenway close to where they have been camped out for greater than a week, according to police. Several hundred protesters were arrested in New York greater than a week in the past after police said they left out warnings to stay in place.
The park closes to the public at eleven p.m. underneath city law. The code is intended to preserve homeless human beings from snoozing in parks, however has ensnared the otherwise peaceful protesters.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Associated Press
All Rights Reserved