WWBT: http://www.nbc12.com/
Posted: Sunday, November 6, 2011 5:53 PM EST
Updated: Sunday, November 6, 2011 6:57 PM EST


Occupy Richmond Moving to Monroe Park two
RICHMOND, VA (WWBT) - Kanawha Plaza has been unoccupied by protesters for almost a week.
Now the Occupy Richmond protesters say they're transferring to Monroe Park later this week.
Police on horseback and city crews with bulldozers kicked out the protesters in the early morning hours final Monday.
We may be heading for some other clash between police and the protesters.
Police say the same rules practice - you are not allowed to remain in town parks after dark.
The protesters say they're just going to preserve occupying specific components of the city.
Occupy Richmond protesters gathered at Monroe Park Sunday to go thru a few items salvaged after they have been kicked out of Kanawha Plaza.
Nick Spangler lost a bunch of gadgets that night.
"Brand new tent, company new bad ten diploma slumbering bag, blankets and a new winter jacket I had simply sold too," Spangler said. "All of that is gone."
Kanawha Plaza is now reopen after metropolis crews did some cleansing and preservation after the Occupy Richmond protesters had been kicked out.
"This isn't always whatever about Kanawha Plaza," Spangler said. "This is Occupy Richmond and we're going to occupy Richmond."
The early morning eviction has even helped with recruitment. Philip Kelly decided to get worried after seeing them kicked out.
"I've always agreed with the movement," Kelly said. two "But that simply prompted me to get out here."
Now he plans to begin spending his nights at Monroe Park.
But who's to say the police won't kick the protesters out of Monroe park too?
"I'm positive it is going to happen," Spangler said. "It's simply a be counted of when. I would like to assume they won't do it however I'm now not going to be naive about it."
This would not be the first time a crew was arrested for protesting in Monroe Park.
You may be aware a number of members of a nearby anarchist crew have been arrested back in March for illegally camping in the park for a week.
Spangler says they're already mapping out their next place if they're kicked out of Monroe Park.
"We imply what we say," he said. two "We have some dedication and resolve here. We desire to exhibit you that we choose to be heard. We desire to be seen and taken seriously."
The reputable 24-7 occupation of Monroe Park won't start until Wednesday evening.