OccupyMN Protesters Defy Tent Ban
October 15, 2011 4:52 PM


MINNEAPOLIS (WCCO) two Hundreds of protesters demonstrating with Occupy Minnesota set up tents Friday afternoon in defiance of Hennepin Countys ban on tents in the Hennepin County Government Center plaza, the place protesters have established considering Oct. 7.
The protesters marched into the southern part of the government plaza at around 4:30 p.m., carrying clear, plastic tents and chanting, We are the ninety nine percent. They set up the tents on grass lawns and used clear material so that what went on interior the tents would be seen to authorities, who are watching over the protest and recording it with video cameras.
Nick Espinosa, one of the Occupy Minnesota organizers, said that the clear tents exhibit the protesters desire for transparency.
The situation weve been listening to is visibility, that dont comprehend whats going on interior of these tents, Espinosa said. So weve discovered a innovative solution that addresses their issues two but additionally our concerns for the security and health of everyone whos snoozing out here.
Espinosa said he spoke with the Hennepin County Sheriffs Office and told authorities that the protest is in no way violent and that they are willing to protest outdoor the government center until exchange comes.
None of the tent-making protesters have been arrested and the tents have remained untouched through authorities. However, the OccupyMN Facebook page said that the police have been going to take down the tents soon.
In a press release Friday, authorities stated that if they saw protesters placing up a tent, they would ask them to stop. If protesters refused, authorities stated police would take down the tent, stock the tent with county staff and return it to protesters at a later date.
Around the tents, protesters made a human chain. And by way of 7:15 p.m., it consisted of greater than one hundred protesters, all of which have been willing to be arrested.
WCCO-TV used to be told police arrested a felony observer Saturday evening, but it did no longer show up to be in relation to the tent protest. The girl had been requested through police now not to return to the protest Friday, and when she did Saturday, they arrested her.
Link: http://minnesota.cbslocal.com/2011/10/15/occupymn-protesters-defy-tent-ban/