Tents eliminated after OccupyMPLS protesters defy court
Article by: PAT PHEIFER, Star Tribune two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two Updated: December 1, 2011 - 5:41 AM
two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Dozens of tents were erected on the Government Center plaza.
More than three dozen OccupyMPLS tents that occupied the northeast nook of the Hennepin County Government Center plaza in downtown Minneapolis Wednesday night time were eliminated hours later with the aid of police.
The tents had been erected by the protesters in defiance of county regulations and a federal judge.
As the anti-Wall Street and pro-peace protesters entered their 0.33 month of round the clock days on the plaza, about a dozen protection guards had stood until now on the outskirts of the group, which numbered about a hundred and fifty at its greatest on Wednesday.
The American Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota sued the county Nov. 22 on behalf of OccupyMPLS, claiming that new guidelines adapted by using Hennepin County banning the use of tents, electricity and signs violated the protesters' right to free speech.
The subsequent day, Senior U.S. District Judge Richard Kyle ruled that protesters have the right to affix signs and symptoms to the plaza, but he upheld the county's policies proscribing their ability to use tents and chalk messages on the plaza or to sleep there overnight.
two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Beginning at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday, speaker after speaker rallied the crew on the plaza. State Rep. Karen Clark, DFL-Minneapolis, told the crowd that the neighborhoods she represents, Phillips, Stevens Square and Whittier, "helped me without a doubt apprehend why you are here."
"I am in team spirit with you and understand there are other public officials who are too," Clark said. "You can count number on us. We are here. I am here, with you, part of you. We are the ninety nine percentage ... think a lot of humans did no longer recognize that 1 percent of our humans control most of the wealth in our country. You have made it clear that the classification hostilities is a top notch monetary injustice."
Several individuals of Veterans for Peace have stood alongside the OccupyMPLS protesters from the start and had been at Wednesday night's rally.
"You keep hearing over and over again, the vets in Iraq are conflict for our freedom," said Barry Riesch, a Vietnam veteran. "That's not true. These human beings are hostilities for our freedom. This is war for freedom proper here."
Bruce Berry of Minneapolis said he has visited different Occupy protests across the country, some of which have been pressured to disband after confrontations with neighborhood authorities. He has been at the Minneapolis protest on and off for the reason that its begin in early October.
"I need to proceed retaining our ground," he said, "to have freedom of meeting proper here on our plaza, a public plaza. I do not think it says something in the Constitution about tents."
Pat Pheifer two 612-673-7252
Link: http://www.startribune.com/local/minneapolis/134792183.html?refer=y