Police in Riot Gear End Occupy San Diego Protest
Lines of officers in rise up equipment moved the protesters off the property overnight
By R. Stickney, Kelly Mcpherson and Lauren Steussy
| Saturday, Oct 29, 2011 two | Updated 2:24 PM PD
Source: Police in Riot Gear End Occupy San Diego Protest | NBC 7 San Diego



A total of fifty one Occupy San Diego protesters had been arrested early Friday morning and two more have been arrested later in the day.
San Diego Police Officers and San Diego County Sheriff's Deputies cleared out Occupy San Diego protesters in the raid Friday at about 2 a.m.
The regulation enforcement officers arrived in rise up equipment to clear out the humans and the tents that have taken over this house for three weeks. Forty people had been arrested in the front of Civic Center Plaza on Third St. and later, police arrested eleven additional protesters in Children's Park in downtown San Diego moments later.
Raw Video: Warning Graphic Language
When an officer the usage of a bullhorn demanded the crew disperse, protesters responded chanting "This is what democracy looks like."
Members of the public and employees in close by structures complained to the police of human and animal feces, drug use and litter on the premises. That, in addition to the severa violations of town codes and nation laws, led police to their decision, stated Assistant Chief of Police Boyd Long at a Friday morning press conference.
"The driving thing used to be the unsanitary conditions," Long said.
After the press conference at the SDPD headquarters, members of the occupation gathered and chanted that they desired their human beings back.
Prior to the late-night raid, police said they made efforts to mediate with protestors, utilizing professional mediators from the National Conflict Resolution Center to try to attain an agreement. Long stated notwithstanding these attempts, protesters had been unwilling to cross their personal posessions from the public property.
"These are not the variety of negotiations have been used to two with this leaderless group," said San Diego Police Chief William Lansdowne at the press convention throughout a query and reply session.
Police tried to cross the tents out of the Civic Center Plaza occupation on Oct. 14, ensuing in two arrests. Since then, countless tents have been moved back in, and many protesters slept on the plaza at night.
We chose the night we did due to the fact we figured there would be the smallest number of humans there, Long said.
Many of these who watched the police action were screaming that the officers were section of the 99% and singing patriotic songs.
Abraham Roloff with Occupy San Diego explained his ride just after nighttime in Children's Park the place he was camping overnight as section of the movement:
"They gave us no verbal warning whatsoever, they grabbed all people who stood in their way even if their arms have been up, threw them to the floor and arrested them. we requested persistently if we should have a few minutes to accumulate our non-public belongings and they had nothing to say, absolute silence," said Roloff.
Long said police did supply two verbal warnings before shifting to arrest the protesters. At that point, a few protesters moved out, but many stayed.
More Raw Video: Warning Graphic Language
Occupy San Diego members stated the arrests had been unfair and claimed police brutality for arresting observers and protesters. Lansdowne stated he witnessed no pressure issues.
There was once one younger woman who was once actually filming them with her iPhone and they reached out, grabbed her arm, put it behind her lower back and arrested her except any variety of warning, said one witness.
Officers later erected water-filled obstacles around the Civic Center to maintain people out of the area. They will be cleaning the plaza, and say protesters can return once they end cleaning -- however cannot go their property lower back in.
Protesters say they are searching for out a privately-owned piece of land to proceed their stand towards company greed and profits disparities in the country.
In response, San Diego Mayor Jerry Sanders said the actions taken by means of police had been justified.
"The City of San Diego, of course, supports anyones right to protest. However, when fitness and security troubles arise, or when protesters fail to comply with the law, appropriate action need to be taken," Sanders stated in a statement.
Kevin Keenan, Executive Director of the ACLU, spoke with Landsdowne Friday afternoon and voiced his concerns
"I entreated the chief to drop the charges, launch the protesters, and locate an alternative area and way to accommodate in a single day protest activity," he stated in a statement," Keenan wrote in a statement.
SDPD confirms that later in the day two more protesters had been arrested.
One man or woman was arrested for assault with a deadly weapon after police said they threw a can at an Sgt., hitting them in the face. The Sgt. was not injured. Another man or woman was arrested for battery.
Source: Police in Riot Gear End Occupy San Diego Protest | NBC 7 San Diego