Updated: 1:17 a.m. Friday, Oct. 28, 2011 | Posted: 10:43 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 27, 2011
SF police canceled planned raid of 'Occupy' encampment


SAN FRANCISCO The two raids police had planned to conduct at Justin Herman Plaza, one late Wednesday night or early Thursday morning, and a second one Thursday afternoon, were canceled at the closing minute.
San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee stated Thursday the encampment at Justin Herman Plaza wanted to be cleaned up.
We're form of attempting to strike an settlement about how that can get carried out without being threatening to either side, so it is all I can say at this time, Lee told KTVU.
The Mayor informed KTVU he will announce his plans for Justin Herman plaza with the aid of Saturday afternoon.
There's been an agreement till he responds to us in forty eight hours, it would be inappropriate to take police action, said demonstrator Nicole Ghanbarzadeh.
Early Thursday morning, police officers gathered on Treasure Island and remaining night time they have been staged in Portrero Hill.
San Francisco Police Chief Greg Suhr stated Thursday these have been just education exercises.
Supervisor John Avalos, who's running for mayor, instructed KTVU he suspects what occurred in Oakland gave the mayor and police chief 2nd ideas about carrying out a raid at Justin Herman Plaza.
Clearly the use of pressure did no longer work in Oakland and they don't desire to have egg on their face here in SF, Avalos said.
Police sources stated some officers have been positioned on time beyond regulation to habits the raids earlier than they had been cancelled.
Police told KTVU both the mayor and the police chief are experienced in dealing with protestors and both probable came to the settlement that the timing was now not right.
Lisa Matthews, a single mom stated she's cautiously constructive now that there has been a talk with the mayor.
I'm glad they're finally trying to discuss to us as an alternative of just treating us like we do not exist and that we're just a problem, Matthews said.
Police said there is additionally some concern that with Halloween coming on Monday, troublemakers should take advantage of the protest and purpose problems.