Occupy SF, Cal protesters arrested in downtown San Francisco
By: Bay City News | 11/16/11 3:33 PM


Several hundred Occupy SF protesters are marching via downtown San Francisco on
Wednesday afternoon to protest cuts to public education.
Click on the image to the right to see more snap shots of the protesters at the bank.
The march, however, became disruptive after protesters stormed a Bank of America department and refused to leave, main to the arrest of demonstrators.
At about 2:15 p.m., at least 100 protesters rushed into a Bank of America branch on California Street close to Davis Street, taking it over. They stood inside the department chanting, "We are the 99 percent."
Some additionally pitched tents interior of the building.
At about 2:40 p.m., police ordered the protesters, some of whom had been standing on desks in the bank, to disperse.
Dozens of police officers stood backyard the branch, and rebellion police arrived to impervious the building.
Police scuffled with protesters, shoving them out of the way to access the building's doorway. Some people had been trying to exit the financial institution and others were blocking off the officers' direction as they tried to enter.
Another team of protesters left from backyard of the financial institution and were headed towards Civic Center, but dozens of them remained inner as of 3 p.m. and had erected a tent in the center of the floor. Some wore bandanas and some stood on desks.
Shortly earlier than four p.m., police started out arresting the protesters who remained inside.
The "ReFund Public Education March" used to be equipped in section to protest the cancellation of the UC Board of Regents assembly in San Francisco this week.
The assembly used to be canceled because of fears that violent protests would occur, in accordance to the regents.
"The 1 percent on the Board of Regents cancelled their assembly because we demanded they do the people's business," study a assertion posted on the Occupy SF website about the march.
"So now we're going to the place they do Wall Street's business," the assertion read.
The website online states that there would be a noon gathering at Justin Herman Plaza and a 1 p.m. march on banks, accompanied by using a four p.m. "People's Assembly for Public Education" at the State Building at 455 Golden Gate Ave.
Around 1:30 p.m., the protesters sat down on Battery Street between Pacific Avenue and Broadway, blocking off traffic.
Some protesters chanted, "Education ought to be free. No cuts, no peace."
Examiner Sta Writer Andrea Koskey contributed to this document