Police chief defends Occupy SF response
By: Mike Aldax | 12/08/11 10:44 PM
SF Examiner Staff Writer | Follow On Twitter @SFExMikeAldax


San Francisco law enforcement officials have proven "tremendous restraint" in their current scuffles with Occupy SF protesters, police Chief Greg Suhr declared Wednesday night.
During a Police Commission meeting, Suhr defended the dozens of arrests made early Wednesday in the course of and after the 1 a.m. raid on the Justin Herman Plaza encampment.
More than one hundred officers carried out the raid on the approximately one hundred fifty protesters, Officer Albie Esparza said. Later in the day, protesters tried to reclaim the plaza and had a three-hour standoff with cops.
"We dont have any reports, at least at this time, of any of the Occupy human beings being injured," the police chief told commissioners at the Wednesday night meeting.
Some protesters complained of injuries, but it wasnt clear whether or not any have been serious. Most
expressed anger that law enforcement officials gave them solely five minutes to pack up their belongings and go away the plaza. Suhr took issue with that sentiment.
"They had been told they had five minutes, but per the computer-assisted dispatch log, it was once sincerely close to 18 minutes that folks had to gather their belongings," Suhr said, including that campers have been truly given two months of warning to vacate.
Seventy-nine of the protesters left the plaza peacefully all through the raid, with 4 resisting arrest but not inflicting assault or injury, Suhr said. Others have been more combative, he said.
"There had been three criminal assaults on the officers," Suhr said. "One demonstrator threw a bottle, some other demonstrator threw a rubbish can that injured an officer, and any other demonstrator threw a metallic chair that struck an officer in the face of his helmet, breaking his face shield."
The suspect accused of hurling the metal chair, recognized as Joshua Silva, 21, of Oakland, will be arraigned these days on one prison remember of assault with a lethal weapon, Assistant District Attorney Omid Talai said.
Also with a courtroom date these days is transient Michael Chapin, 28, the alleged garbage can thrower. He faces expenses of criminal assault with a deadly weapon and misdemeanor resisting a police officer, Talai said.
Police Commission President Thomas Mazzucco stated the use of force is "inherent in making an arrest."
"The excellent information is, there had been no debacles like Oakland or Los Angeles, or New York," Mazzucco said. "Theres no predominant blowups."