Occupy SF: Mission District Residents Don't Want Protesters in Their Backyard
By Erin Sherbert Mon., Dec. 5 2011 at 8:35 AM


The feeling is mutual between Mission residents and Occupy SF protesters: Neither group desires to see the encampment relocate to the Mission District, regardless of what metropolis officers say.
The Chron's Matier and Ross document this morning that Mission District residents are pulling the NIMBY card, saying they are concerned about dumping more violence and dust in a nearby this is already challenged with the aid of violence and filth. Besides, is not that precisely why the town wants to pass the camp out of the Financial District -- to clear out the sanitary and safety worries on Justin Herman Plaza?
"It's insane," resident Roberto Hernandez instructed the Chron. "Not one assembly to ask us what we might think. We have enough problems right here in the Mission."
The metropolis laid out its beneficiant offer to relocate the camp from Justin Herman Plaza close to the Financial District to a greater splendid placing along Mission and sixteenth streets -- on the grounds of a former excessive school. The metropolis even provided to pay hire on the property, which belongs to the San Francisco Unified School District (we are sure SFUSD is keen to accept the much-needed cash). It's a difficult deal to flip down, thinking about the site comes with going for walks water and working toilets.
Yet Occupy protesters are divided on whether to continue to be or go ; some say it is time to move the camp and weed out the awful seeds, whilst others believe they should be close to the very banks they are protesting. Moving to the Mission would put the camp out of site, out of mind.
The metropolis gave the camp a noon closing date last Wednesday to make a decision, but that day got here and went and protesters remained camped out on the plaza. At one point, police barricaded the camp, main protesters to consider a raid was imminent. But when it grew to become clear that caging in protesters would solely stoke chaos, police eliminated the steel fencing and retreated.
Since then, protesters have made no choices about what is next for the movement. On a aspect note, protesters did cleverly create a monument at the site, using scraps of the metal barricades police had used to fence them in. Here's a video of it: