Dozens of Occupy SF protesters arrested in raid
By: Ari Burack | 12/11/11 11:39 AM
SF Examiner Staff Writer


If there was any lingering doubt that city officers have had sufficient of Occupy SFs downtown encampment, it was erased early Sunday with some other police raid.
Officers removed protesters from in the front of the Federal Reserve Bank building, citing a country regulation on unlawful lodging. Police arrested fifty five all through the 4 a.m. motion at one zero one Market St., after persistently warning them about violating the law, spokesman Officer Albie Esparza said. Illegal lodging is defined in California penal code as misdemeanor disorderly conduct. Someone who hotels in any building, structure, automobile or place, whether public or private, without the permission of the proprietor or man or woman entitled to the possession
or in manipulate of it can be arrested. Lauren Phillips, 24, was once arrested early Sunday, but was once one of about 30 protesters who had back to the web page by means of the afternoon.
Doesnt the First Amendment of the Constitution supersede all of that? Phillips asked. And thats exactly what have been here demonstrating for, defending the people.
Phillips said there had been no tents or structures overnight, and that campers have been rustled from their napping bags, with officers outnumbering demonstrators via about two to one.
It doesnt get a good deal extra peacefully assembled than a bunch of human beings cuddled up on the
sidewalk, she said.
Phillips, who has been outdoor the financial institution constructing for nearly three months, said she would hold assisting the movement, but was not sure whether or not she would spend some other night time at the site.
Police cleared out the primary Occupy SF camp at Justin Herman Plaza early Wednesday. P olice Chief Greg Suhr stated the sit-lie ordinance when asked later that night at the Police Commission whether protesters should show in the front of the Federal Reserve. The regulation prohibits sitting or lying on public sidewalks between 7 a.m. and 11 p.m.
Police have been handing written warnings about the sit-lie law to demonstrators backyard the Federal Reserve, but via Thursday they also were touting the unlawful lodging law as a viable enforcement mechanism.
If theyre in violation of any state or municipal laws, we can put in force them, Esparza said
Thursday. We are going to monitor the situation, and its at our discretion whether we implement the country or municipal laws. But we can put in force them, should we pick to.
During Sundays arrests, Esparza said, some police officers had been spit on and one officer used to be pushed by means of demonstrators, however no one demonstrators or police two was once injured.