Occupy SF motion takes root on Market Street
By: Dan Schreiber | 10/05/11 4:00 AM
SF Examiner Staff Writer


It was only a rely of time till the Occupy Wall Street movement came to one of the international locations most famend bastions of protest, and the neighborhood effort appears to be growing.
The so-called General Assembly of the Occupy SF motion has constructed a developing makeshift camp on Market Street this week and layout a march to the Federal Reserve Bank at noon today. The crew started as a gathering of roughly 10 human beings camping
outside the Bank of America building on California Street on Sept. 17, t he identical day the flagship encampment used to be set up in Zuccotti Park, two blocks north of Wall Street in New York.
Protesters march in downtown San Francisco to Wells Fargo headquarters.
The Occupy Wall Street protests have spread from Los Angeles to Boston; Chicago; Portland, Maine, and different cities. The budding anti-Wall Street movement commenced ultimate month with a vague experience of criticism over the widening gap between the wealthy and poor in America.
But in three weeks, it has supplied fuel for a broader country wide message of financial despair. Protesters have spoken out about the lack of jobs and opportunities. Organizers in Washington, D.C., format a march at Freedom Plaza on Thursday to denounce the systems and institutions that aid limitless warfare and unrestrained company greed.
Brought collectively by using social media stores such as Twitter and Facebook, contributors hope the New York protests can plant the seeds of a permanent country wide movement.
In San Francisco, protesters originally spent about a week at the Bank of America building at 555 California St. The team then moved to Union Square until they have been asked to leave after about a day. That is when they started constructing a semipermanent camp on Market Street, c omplete with tents and a makeshift cooking place under a blue tarp held up between timber and bushes.
As of Tuesday afternoon, about forty humans had been setting up for a wet night time and some protesters stated police had already asked them to move. Rob Benson, one of the protesters in his late 30s, stated police asked them to get a permit from the Department of Public Works, then they have been redirected to any other city department, then lower back to the police.
You cant permit the proper to assemble, Benson said, adding that t he group is trying to preserve accurate family members with police. Its a right.
A poster being circulated via the group calls on protesters to exhibit up at the Federal Reserve Building at noon today. The fabric is being disbursed on the website
occupysf.com, which additionally is encouraging people to carry substances for long-term camping, plus gardening equipment, artwork supplies, baby wipes and kiddie pools. The web site also asks protesters to convey solar-powered chargers and smartphones with tethering competencies to supply the team roaming Internet access.
The scene Tuesday included informal interaction, tambourine playing, marijuana smoking and different fanfare. Tarek Mejri, 34, used to be cooking up a large pot of vegetable pasta, which he said was once donated with the aid of a neighborhood farmers market.
Everything you see here is donated, Mejri said.