Occupy Miami Protestors Plan to Camp Out All Week
Protestors of the group graph to camp out all week
By Mary Beth Wilson
| Sunday, Oct 16, 2011 | Updated 5:49 PM EDT


Occupy Miami protesters set up about 20 tents in the downtown area, and on Sunday they stated that they graph to stay there during the week.
Members of the crew stated they set up in the front of the Government Center at 111 NW 1st St. due to the fact it is near a massive transportation hub and generates a lot of foot traffic. Police stated that the protestors are unofficially allowed to remain at that location.
"I slept there final night time with, I counted, about a hundred fellow occupiers," stated Occupy Miami member Misael Soto.
"To me, actually occupying is the biggest show of team spirit for the motive I can exhibit ," Soto stated as to why he camped out Saturday night. " It's what the movement is all about. Protesting 24/7, taking returned our government and economy."
Other individuals of Occupy Miami expressed their concerns, and defined why they graph to preserve protesting.
"I'm upset about cash and politics, it is a large one," stated group member Seth Crouser. "I'm personally upset about the financial give way and how that passed off and how there's been no culpability."
"What we're doing proper now is variety of an experience with democracy," Occupy Miami member Mike Park said. "And it's giving us an idea of what can be executed with masses."
The team had gathered on Saturday, as hundreds of protestors gathered along Biscayne Boulevard, chanting and maintaining up symptoms displaying their frustration and anger at corporate America, the federal government and the banking system.
They marched countless blocks to Government Center where they persisted their demonstration. Drivers honked to exhibit their guide as protestors stood outside.
People chanted and held up signs. One signal read: "Banks Were Bailed Out You Were Sold Out" and every other study "Healthcare Not Warfare." Meanwhile, the Herald pronounced that police stated the range of protestors had been greater than 1,000.
People persevered discussing the protest on Occupy Miami's Facebook page in the course of the weekend. Protestors also gathered in Fort Lauderdale on Sunday in the Bubier park region to exhibit their endured support of the Occupy movement.
"Hey everyone!" Occupy Fort Lauderdale posted on their Facebook page. "It's a beautiful day to make our presence recognised in FTL! Come on down to the Bubier park area and assist us make it acknowledged that we don't seem to be going anywhere."
Meanwhile, in Chicago, the early morning arrests of one hundred seventy five individuals of a crew demonstrating towards corporate greed signified a new segment of civil disobedience for the city's wing of the movement, organizers said Sunday.
The arrests came after lots of participants of Occupy Chicago refused to take down tents and leave Grant Park close to the city's lakefront when it closed at eleven p.m. Saturday. Organizers did no longer are trying to find a allow to be in the park after hours, pronouncing they stayed because they need a home base for the developing movement.
On Saturday, Occupy protestors gathered all over the world. Violence broke out in Rome, the place police fired tear gas and water cannons at some protestors who broke away from the principal demonstration, smashing store and financial institution windows, torching automobiles and hurtling bottles. Dozens have been injured. And tens of heaps marched in cities across Europe, as the protests that commenced in New York linked up with long-running demonstration in opposition to authorities cost-cutting and failed monetary insurance policies in Europe. Protestors additionally turned out in Australia and Asia.
The Occupy Wall Street demonstration began out small last month, with less than a dozen college students spending days and nights in Zucotti Park, a private plaza off Broadway. It has grown significantly, however, both in New York City and elsewhere as human beings in different communities display their team spirit in comparable protests.