Occupy Tulsa rallies for accused hit man
Updated: 12/09/2011 11:31 am Published: 12/08/2011 9:29 pm




Occupy Tulsa rallied in help of an accused hit mans constitutional rights Thursday evening.
Terrico Bethel is accused of gunning down Tulsa businessman Neal Sweeney at his east Tulsa office, in September of 2008. Its a hit prosecutors say was planned by way of Mohammad Aziz, a north Tulsa fuel station owner, who did not want to pay Sweeney for gas delivery.


Usually occupiers are out at Centennial Green near 6 th and Main Street, however for a few hours close to 50 human beings stood outdoor the David L. Moss Correctional Center unafraid of backlash this rally should convey their way.
Occupiers say this now not about whether or not Bethel is responsible or innocent.
I understand for a truth he has rights that are being denied of him, Chris Nichols said.
When requested to elaborate, Nichols said, its now not always right that hes been detained for whats been going on three years.
Supporting Bethels sixth amendment proper to a speedy trial is a go thats positive to fire up the opposition. two Its some thing now not even Bethels mom expected.
(I was) very shocked, very surprised, very pleased, I mean, I am nevertheless type of overwhelmed through it, Glenda Gray said.


The people behind Occupy Tulsa say their mission is broader than simply removing corporate greed in Tulsa and across the globe.
Were inclined to devote what resources we have to social justice, Nichols said.
No rely whom Nichols says they offend, inspire, or alarm.
We have the duty as a society to advocate for justice whether or not or now not we are socially degraded for it.
They simply favor Bethel out of a reformatory phone and into a court docket room.
If he is related to the crime, and if he did commit the homicide he should ride that due process, Nichols advised FOX23.
District Attorney Tim Harris wouldnt remark on camera, but he says the purpose Bethels trial continues getting delayed is that Bethel has had repeated issues with his lawyers.
Bethels mom on the other hand says her sons first attorney left the case after more elaborate prices had been added, and a 2d attorney left when extra funds for the Bethels felony protection were not approved.


Court bureaucracy does show that six weeks ago, Bethel fired his lawyer once again pushing his trial back. He is scheduled to be in court docket for a pretrial listening to on December 14th.