eight of 37 DOCUMENTS
The Associated Press State & Local Wire
November 2, 2011 Wednesday 6:14 PM GMT
10 Occupy Tulsa protesters arrested at metropolis park
BYLINE: By JUSTIN JUOZAPAVICIUS, Associated Press
SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL
LENGTH: 553 words
DATELINE: TULSA Okla.


At least 25 police officers used pepper spray and zip-tie handcuffs to arrest 10 Occupy Tulsa protesters for curfew violations early Wednesday at a park in the city's monetary district. By midday, eight of protesters had bonded out of prison and returned to their camp.
Several of those arrested described police officers and one of a kind tactical gadgets descending upon the small park establishing round 1:30 a.m. to take the 10 protesters into custody. Three protesters instructed The Associated Press that seven of those arrested have been pepper-sprayed, and that police used pressure in some instances which includes one officer inserting his knee in the back of one protester who was once already face-down on the ground.
Tulsa Police Chief Chuck Jordan said he acquired no reviews that officers used unreasonable force, and stated his officers pepper-sprayed solely 5 of the 10 arrested.
"First of all, the arrests had nothing to do with the movement," Jordan stated at a information convention Wednesday. "They had to do with a violation of Tulsa ordinances and laws.
"Just so you know, many of the protesters who have been there have been free to assemble and protest on the sidewalk except being in the park after curfew," Jordan said.
H.A. Chapman Centennial Green, like all metropolis parks, has an 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew that officials decided on Tuesday to begin enforcing.
Jordan said the police department supported the movement's proper to lawfully and peacefully assemble, and would even protect the team if they came below threats.
Several of those who bonded out of the county prison and back to the park Wednesday felt differently.
"They came out to do us harm, they got here out it looks to do us violence. You do not need 50 officers for this," said Eli Silva, 23, of Tulsa, who had been arrested. Silva said he was blinded for about an hour with the aid of the pepper spray that left an orange stain on his white hoodie, and he stated he was once preserving it on "as a badge of honor."

Samuel Molik, 24, of Tulsa, stated he used to be arrested when a group of the protesters shaped a circle in the park, interlocking their arms.
"It's a hard feeling to describe, it's nonetheless so fresh. I'm disappointed. I'm barely disgusted by what's took place here," he said.
Amanda Hammack, 29, of Tulsa bore several cuts and a massive bruise that she stated were prompted by way of zip ties used to handcuff her.
"I simply went limp, I did not fight. They pulled me off the ground, carried me out of the park and put me face down on the cement.
"I sense very irritated and pissed off by it, however I experience like now, extra than ever, that this movement is going to change the world," she said.
Three tents have been in location at the park Wednesday morning and the protesters stated they planned to occupy the space once more Wednesday night. Some passers-by furnished the team with support, as one man in business suit stopped to hand Silva a $20 bill.
"That's for a terrific protest," the man said and walked away.
Someone else had delivered a pile of sweatshirts for the protesters to put on in the crisp weather.
In Oklahoma City, the place protesters are camping at a town park, there have been no arrests, said Beth Isbell, who described herself as a moderator for Occupy Oklahoma City.
"We're a little much less worried about that in Oklahoma City. We have a permit at Kerr Park and we have an settlement with police and we have been cooperating with police," she said.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Associated Press
All Rights Reserved