San Jose Police Break Up Occupy Camp; eight Arrested
PHOTO: Protesters supporting the Occupy Wall St. motion camp out near San Jose City Hall, October 9, 2011. (CBS)


SAN JOSE (CBS SF) two Police arrested eight Occupy San Jose protesters and referred to one early Friday morning at City Hall as section of a pre-planned operation.
Five human beings had been noted for camping in the front of City Hall, two human beings were stated for being there after 11 p.m., one character was once arrested for scratching a police car and a probation violation, and one man or woman in a wheelchair was once mentioned and released at the scene, police said.
The arrests come a day after officials in Oakland issued an eviction be aware to protesters camping out at Frank Ogawa Plaza in front of Oakland City Hall. The order used to be not enforced overnight and demonstrators in Oakland said they didnt graph on leaving.
The choice for the San Jose arrests was made by City Manager Debra Figone, police said. She these days met with her body of workers and Police Chief Chris Moore and expressed worries about the health and security problems associated with the encampment set up in guide of the Occupy Wall Street movement, according to police.
KCBS Matt Bigler Reports:
Authorities Respond to Occupy San Jose Protest
Police said there has been a build-up of trash and indicators of urination and defecation near City Hall.
The arrests are misdemeanors, except for the vandalism, which includes a legal charge. Those arrested have been booked into Santa Clara County Jail.
The operationinvolving 10 officers, two sergeants, and one lieutenantwas carried out at about three a.m. to prevent the hazard of interference with the aid of crowds leaving nightclubs in the citys downtown area, police said.
This used to be not the first time police have issued citations to the protesters. Officers have contacted the protesters four instances in the ultimate two weeks.
A local services crew responded Friday morning and gathered tents and other portions of property belonging to the protesters. The gadgets have been taken to a city organization yard for safekeeping.