19 of 19 DOCUMENTS
UPI
November 21, 2011 Monday 4:50 PM EST
LENGTH: 518 words
DATELINE: GURNEE, Ill., Nov. 21


Occupy protesters called 'anti-American'
Members of the nationwide Occupy protests are "anti-American" and that includes veterans who join the protesters, Rep. Joe Walsh, R-Ill., said.
Speaking at a city hall meeting in Gurnee, Ill., Saturday Walsh said protesters have been "generally spoiled, pampered, unfocused, clueless younger people, and a smattering of other human beings who do not apprehend this usa and are advocating anti-American solutions," KMOX-TV, St. Louis, reported.
When requested if veterans taking phase in the Occupy Wall Street protests had been anti-American, Walsh said, "Yes."
In California, University of California, Davis, students and faculty verified towards the use of pepper spray towards protesters with the aid of college police last week.
The president of the University of California machine ordered a review of the system's protection practices in the wake of the incident.
Mark G. Yudos said he was "appalled" through the incident and promised a evaluation of police strategies at all 10 UC campuses, the Los Angeles Times reported.
UC Davis placed Police Chief Annette Spicuzza, who had originally defended her officers' action, on administrative go away Monday.
The go by using Chancellor Linda P.B. Katehi got here less than a day after she put two UC Davis police officers on leave.
"As I have gathered extra records about the activities that took region on our Quad on Friday, it has end up clear to me that this is a necessary step towards restoring have faith on our campus," Katehi stated in a statement.
Katehi has resisted calls by using some UC Davis faculty contributors for her to resign.
"My voice is superior than your pepper spray," symptoms carried by college students throughout Monday's protest read. Protesters chanted: "Whose college is it? Our university!"
"We were simply kids sitting down in a circle singing. Someone yelled pepper spray, and I closed my eyes, and at that point I entered a world of pain," David Vischo, 22, instructed the crowd, adding, "I desire take back our college brick by way of brick. But we'll will do it with dignity."
In Oakland, Calif., the ultimate Occupy encampment used to be cleared out early Monday. Protesters said police confirmed up quickly after nighttime and they had been ordered to leave.
The campers did so peacefully and there had been no reviews of arrests or clashes with police, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.
Also in California, a small crew of Occupy San Jose protesters gathered in front of the domestic of City Manager Debra Figone, who they blame for refusing to give them a allow to camp at City Hall.
"You kick us out of our home, we are going to come to your home," protester Shaun O'Kelly instructed the San Jose Mercury News.
City spokesman Tom Manheim stated that the town does not enable tenting at City Hall and can't problem a allow to camp there.
In Colorado Springs, Colo., police disbanded the Occupy protest web page at the city's Acacia Park overnight, taking down tarp-covered structures after the metropolis denied protesters an extension of their allow to "occupy" an adjoining street corner.
No arrests were made throughout the clean-up, which began when officers informed protesters Sunday night time their allow would now not be renewed, The (Colorado Springs) Gazette reported.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 U.P.I.
All Rights Reserved