Occupy Boston takes a web page from the radical underground
The Anarchist's Playbook
By LIZ PELLY two | October 12, 2011


Occupy Boston takes a web page from the radical underground
The Anarchist's Playbook
Just hours after his guys finished wiping the Greenway's manicured gardens with the bellies, knees, and faces of Occupy Boston last Tuesday, the BPD top cop attempted to create dissent by way of blaming a acquainted bogeyman: the "anarchists."
BPD Commissioner Ed Davis informed the BostonHerald on Tuesday that he had no trouble with the actual protesters. "The (Occupation) crew that used to be right here for the first 10 days was once working very closely with us," he said, "but they warned us the day past morning that a new group, the anarchists, desired to take control."
Occupy Boston scoffed at that announcement suggesting that the BPD was using a loaded term to turn public opinion against a nonviolent movement. "Any 'anarchists' who tried to disrupt the peaceful protests have been BPD plants," the group tweeted from its respectable @occupy_boston account. "Our anarchists linked palms and sang songs. Peacefully."
In fact, the Occupy motion is deeply rooted in anarchist traditions and values. Many of the national Occupy movement's organizational tools two the prolonged typical assemblies, the finger-waggling workout routines in consensus-building, the free meals and garb available throughout camp come from anarchist fashions of direct action, horizontal organizing, and present economies.
In Boston specifically, Occupy attracts on the experiences of the local direct-action activist community: the anarchists and DIY fanatics who have lengthy organized non-hierarchically in collective homes and radical book shops. The contemporary occupation in Dewey Square is eventually imparting a country wide stage for a fringe population that has espoused these anti-corporate beliefs for years. But all of sudden as the protesters chanted to the BPD on Sunday night "the entire world is watching."
Zaina (the activists interviewed asked that we now not use their remaining names) is a 20-year-old BU student who volunteers in Occupy Boston's food tent. She's also a veteran of Food Not Bombs, an international grassroots network of independent companies that serve free vegetarian foods to all comers. Using more often than not salvaged food, Food Not Bombs, like Occupy, is particularly anti-capitalist. Before the Occupation, FNB's focal point was on presenting two meals a week one in Central Square, one in Boston Common two in most cases to homeless humans and visiting kids. Now, Zaina and different FNB regulars work alongside different Occupy volunteers, serving meals round the clock to the camp's residents and visitors; they've already fed hundreds.
In the next tent over from food, the "Really Really Free Market" provides a space the place all and sundry can drop off unwanted gadgets (mostly clothing) and/or select up something they need for free. It's based totally on the radical anarchist notion of a "gift economy." In stark distinction to market economies, there is no expectation of direct compensation for giving. Local collective houses organized RRFMs in Allston's Ringer Park in the course of this previous summer.
But the have an impact on of anarchist tradition on the Occupation goes past the idea of a free change of goods and services. For desirable or ill, the interminable, self-involved "general assemblies" two some thing frequently picked out as a weak spot of the Occupy motion additionally have their roots in the anarchist underground. It's known as "horizontal organizing," decision-making except a command hierarchy or a leader.
"I do not suppose consensus organizing and horizontal organizing is solely anarchist," says Jacob, who lives in a cooperative house in decrease Allston. "But it is an thinking that we use and love. And I assume that it is in reality addictive. When you participate in a collaborative process, lengthy and sluggish as it is, at the end . . . every time we pass by a decision, the crowd at the GA simply roars. Just due to the fact we made it, we acquired through, we heard everybody's voice. And it feels good. . . . It's crazy. And so beautiful."
As the Occupy movement spreads to dozens of cities, it is bringing with it a new organizational structure that is basically one-of-a-kind from the marches and the protests of the Civil Rights generation and, later, progressive protests towards the Vietnam war.
For anarchists, the Occupy motion is transforming their intrinsic each day practices into systems utilized by way of the masses.
"When I go to meetings, we do the twinkles all the time," says Zaina, referring to the now-ubiquitous hand gesture that indicates an occupier's guide for a given idea. "And to see heaps of people doing that now is so great. . . . This has been spread across so many people, you just seem around, and you see 200 people doing the twinkles, and it is just so great."
Occupy Boston protesters march alongside Veterans for Peace, as nicely as other activist companies such as Jobs with Justice and the AFL-CIO, at Downtown Crossing on October 13, 2011.
On November 17, 2011, thousands of Occupy Boston and MassUniting marchers (labor unions, community organizers; SEUI, Local Ironworkers, Jobs for Justice, and more) took to the metropolis streets again in team spirit with any other global day of action.