Occupy Missoula: Small phase of necessary movement
October 28, 2011 9:15 am
two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Kelly Maier (letter, Oct. 21) writes of the "ridiculous insanity playing out on the garden of the courthouse" and asks, "Why do a few have so a lot energy of self expression?"
This "ridiculous insanity," Occupy Missoula, is a small however necessary phase of a nationwide motion asking a higher question: Why do we accept that so few have so an awful lot wealth and electricity that they control our government?
Examples? Legislation and loopholes that enable some companies and wealthy humans to pay nearly no taxes at all; legislation to weaken protections of our air and water so businesses can make more profit; financial institution bailouts that did nothing to help human beings dropping their homes; kingdom legislation that weakens workers' rights; persistent imperialism, occupation and war.
I can't take sufficient house to list the many abuses of capitalism that have added our usa to a crisis in jobs and, at the equal time, decreases social programs the poor and jobless need.
I am proud to assist Occupy Missoula, and I invite all of you who comprehend you are part of the "99 percent" to come down to the Courthouse lawn, study some signs and symptoms and literature, talk with people, and be part of the subsequent familiar meeting or rally (see www.occupymissoula.org ).
And through the way, the march Oct. 15 visited the offices of Sens. Max Baucus and Jon Tester as properly as Rep. Denny Rehberg and the Wells Fargo Bank.
Ethel MacDonald, Missoula
http://missoulian.com/news/opinion/mailbag/occupy-missoula-small-part-of-important-movement/article_9a9c2fe0-016b-11e1-912f-001cc4c002e0.html