three of 27 DOCUMENTS
The Associated Press State & Local Wire
December 13, 2011 Tuesday 12:02 AM GMT
BYLINE: By NIGEL DUARA, Associated Press
SECTION: BUSINESS NEWS
LENGTH: 665 words
DATELINE: PORTLAND Ore.

Port of Portland closes 2 terminals after arrests
The Port of Portland shut down two of its four terminals on Monday after police arrested two human beings and seized weapons in the hours earlier than a demonstration by means of the Anti-Wall Street movement.
Security issues were raised when police found the suspects in camouflage apparel with a gun, sword and walkie-talkies who stated they had been doing reconnaissance.
Kari Koch, a spokeswoman for Occupy Portland, stated the two human beings taken into custody were not part of the demonstration.
"We do not send out people with guns," Koch said.
Limited operations persevered at some stage in the day at the port's two other terminals.
Operators of Terminal 6, one of the facilities shut down, planned to hold it closed till 8 a.m. Tuesday due to issues about employee safety, said Mark Price, assistant manager of International Container Terminal Services Inc. in Oregon.
The decision to shut down the two terminals was relayed to about 200 employees from the longshoremen's union, which said it sympathized with the dreams of the Occupy movement however disagreed with shutting down operations that would deprive its participants of pay.
Police did now not right now perceive the two suspects or say what charges they would possibly face.
Port officials erected fences and instructed employees to remain home, port spokesman Josh Thomas said.
The full economic affect of the cross was no longer but known, he said.
"We're speaking about tenants, customers, truckers, rail providers, a relatively far-reaching group, and most of these people are not employed with the aid of the port," Thomas said. "To say it is going to be X amount of bucks right now is impossible."
Thomas stated work involving 4 vessels was once postponed, and clients were calling to complain.
"We share their frustration," Thomas said. "It's now not an ideal scenario and it's also in part misguided and counterproductive."
A couple of hundred protesters blocked semitrailers from making deliveries at the two important terminals, one that handles grain and potash exports and the different for container imports and exports.
Businesses that rent area from the port at two different terminals had been conducting limited operations.
About 100 people stood at Terminal 5, with 12 police officers on bicycles between the protesters and the street. Passing vehicles from time to time honked their horns, and a few that tried to enter the terminal have been let through.
Protesters said the vehicles allowed to pass by were no longer serving one of the organizations centered by the demonstration.
Gov. John Kitzhaber said nearly 5,000 Oregon organizations rely on exports and employ thousands of humans who are section of the so-called ninety nine percent that the Occupy Wall Street protests purport to represent.
"In making an attempt to pressure a public debate and I cheer the public debate, I think it's essential I assume the movement does some harm to the humans that it is ostensibly making an attempt to" help, Kitzhaber instructed journalists at a gathering of enterprise and political leaders in Portland.
The protest took on a carnival environment after contributors determined police weren't a threat. Three people juggled oranges, a man gyrated within a hula-hoop, and an accordionist accompanied through a man beating an empty plastic bucket saved up a steady patter.
Protesters set their sights on two West Coast corporations port operator SSA Marine and grain exporter EGT.
Giant funding firm Goldman Sachs owns a fundamental stake in SSA Marine and has been a regularly occurring goal of protesters.
Robert Walker, 19, said he was unsure the place the protest was once heading.
"That's the energy of this total thing, that it's spontaneous," he said.
Officers making a visitors quit located the gun with ammunition clips and other gadgets in a vehicle carrying two men who said they have been an improve team for the demonstration, police Lt. Robert King said. A 26-year-old man was once riding with a suspended license, and a 27-year-old passenger used to be wanted for a parole violation, he said.
Koch additionally disavowed a man who police said was using a stolen vehicle to the demonstration.
Reach reporter Nigel Duara on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/nigelduara

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Associated Press
All Rights Reserved