6 of 27 DOCUMENTS
Contra Costa Times (California)
December 12, 2011 Monday
Blog: Two APL terminals blocked
BYLINE: By Kristin J. Bender, Katy Murphy, Paul Thissen, Josh Richman, Robert Salonga, Thomas Peele, Paul Rosynsky and Harry Harris Bay Area News Group
SECTION: MY TOWN; Alameda; Oakland-Berkeley; News; World; Local
LENGTH: 2966 words

3 a.m. Protesters block two APL terminals
About 150 protesters remained thru the night time and are now blocking off two APL terminals. Workers are unable to enter and some are arguing with protesters.
A van carrying some Oakland police officers drove by means of and checked out the scene, however there used to be no police recreation otherwise.
10:35 p.m. Mayor Jean Quan calls protest 'economic violence'
Oakland Mayor Jean Quan blasted the port actions today as "economic violence" and puzzled the causes of protesters who are threatening to disrupt every other shift Tuesday morning.
"While we have no longer had bodily violence, the economic violence to this town is simply now not fair," Quan said at a press briefing Monday evening. "... A small crew of humans are going to maintain this port, this city, this economy hostage. It's no longer honest to the workers. It is no longer honest to this city. This metropolis has been very generous to the 99 percentage movement. This metropolis has been very supportive."
She referred to as on protesters to "think about the consequences" of their protest, in particular as a group is threatening to shut down a 3 a.m. shift.
"The human beings who are planning to stay at the port -- do they have households who have vans that because of the slowdown in the economy can also lose these trucks? A day's pay -- $600, $700 -- could be the difference as to whether or not they can preserve that truck or not.
"People have to assume about who are they hurting. They are saying, 'We want to get the interest of the ruling class.' Well, I think the ruling class is likely laughing, and human beings in this metropolis will be crying this Christmas. It's in reality bought to stop."
Interim Police Chief Howard Jordon reminded demonstrators that "while peaceable forms of expression and free speech rights will be facilitated, acts of violence, property destruction and overnight lodging will now not be tolerated."
Port of Oakland officers said that terminals are sticking to their normal schedules with no truck or gate operations planned for Monday night.
Quan entreated contributors in the protests to appreciate workers who are making an attempt to get domestic from the port and maintain security and security, and keep away from violence or injury to maritime vicinity facilities.
10 p.m. Crowd moves to APL Terminal
About 200 ultimate protesters have migrated from the Hanjin terminal on Middle Harbor Road to the APL terminal. Three tents have been pitched in the road, and protesters are consuming and enjoyable while still vowing to wait and regroup for a planned shut down of the 3 a.m. shift at some terminals.
9:30 p.m. Less than 100 stay at Hanjin terminal
At the Port of Oakland, the temper is festive as people dance to music from a truck with a sound system, chat and mill around. Many are now taking walks east down Middle Harbor Road out of the port and say they graph to go domestic to eat, sleep and heat up and the return at 1:30 a.m. to gear up for a three a.m. blockage. It's no longer clear how many graph to do that.
Meanwhile, organizers are directing people to go to the APL terminal near the Adeline bridge and for supporters to bring elements there. Organizers say they diagram a march from seventh and Adeline streets at 12:45 a.m.
8:50 p.m. Mayor Jean Quan speaks out in opposition to persevering with protest
At a press briefing earlier, Mayor Jean Quan said she had planned to thank absolutely everyone for being peaceful, till she discovered out that protesters deliberate to proceed blocking the Port of Oakland into Tuesday morning.
"The monetary violence is simply no longer fair," she said. "The humans who are planning to remain at the port, do they have household who have trucks? ... People have to think about who they are hurting.
"I suppose the 1 percent are possibly laughing and people in this town are crying," Quan said.
Interim Police Chief Howard Jordan said police sketch to reveal protesters' undertaking Monday night and into Tuesday morning and take "appropriate action" at the proper time.
Regular undertaking continues internal the port, however with no unloading or trucking, stated Port of Oakland Executive Director Omar Benjamin.
There are three ships berthed at the port that have been now not unloaded Monday because of the strike; the sketch is to sell off them Tuesday, he said.
"Operations at the port's seven terminals experienced disruptions and delays," Benjamin said. "(Monday's) disruptions have been high-priced to port employees and their families."
Oakland police had not yet made any mutual useful resource calls Monday, Jordan said. However, some Alameda County Sheriff's deputies were called in advance to assist. The city will pay those costs, he said.
8:15 p.m. Protesters asking for help, supplies, food, blankets
About 1,000 protesters stay at the Port, however only about 100 have indicated that they are willing to stay till three a.m. to attempt and shutdown the early morning shift. Protesters have put out a call to supporters asking for heat clothes, meals and blankets as they proceed the protest into the night time and early hours of the morning.
Meanwhile, reporters at the Hanjin terminal are having bother discovering human beings inclined to be interviewed via what they call the "corporate media." One radio reporter says a protester urinated on the information van, then swore at them whilst telling them to "get lost."
7:45 p.m. General assembly decides to block 3 a.m. shift
The Occupy Oakland universal assembly has decided, besides a vote, to proceed the Port of Oakland blockage for the 3 a.m. Tuesday shift. The choice was once based totally on claims that Occupy actions on the West Coast confronted arrests and stun grenades Monday.
However, many Occupy protesters appear not inclined to remain till 3 a.m. The group is now trying to determine how many people desire to continue to be and how many want to leave.
7 p.m. Trucks being loaded at Howard Terminal
While Port of Oakland undertaking seems halted elsewhere, work is nevertheless under way at one Port of Oakland terminal. Workers are loading and unloading trucks at the Howard Terminal near Jack London Square. At the Hanjin Terminal, the Occupy Oakland team is keeping its ordinary assembly to determine whether to prolong the blockade until 3 a.m. Tuesday.
Meanwhile, Port of Oakland and metropolis officials will brief the media about the day's occasions at eight p.m.
6 p.m. General meeting to figure out on blockade
A massive crowd has gathered at Hanjin shipping, terminals fifty five and 66 A common assembly will be held to decide whether to prolong the port blockade until the subsequent shift, at 3 a.m.
There's a dozen trucks waiting to get in; the first one has a load of meat from Kansas. Its driver, Lee Ranaldson, said he'd possibly misplaced $1,000 today.
"The ones they are war towards are at home. They already made their cash today," he said.
5:30 p.m. People climb atop semitrucks
The march has arrived at the Hanjin terminal. There's a line of blocked semi trucks in the center of the road, and a half dozen humans have climbed on top of one of them. There are seven TV vehicles and helicopters, but nevertheless no police presence.
5:15 p.m. Fireworks at port
As people march via the port, a small fireworks display quickly lit up the night. Otherwise, there seems to be little pastime in the terminals.
4:55 p.m. Protesters arrive at Port of Oakland
As three helicopters hover overhead, heaps of protesters are coming into the port, a much large crowd than there used to be at the early morning action. One crew of activists is carrying a tent, and there is three helicopters overhead. There's no immediately signal of police.
4:30 p.m. A active procession
The march to West Oakland, now possibly 1,000 strong, is turning onto Adeline. Music is blasting from a flatbed truck that was once rented for the occasion. People are enjoying drums and dancing, about six blocks deep.
4:10 p.m. The march begins
Hundreds of protesters have left Frank Ogawa Plaza for the Port of Oakland, chanting, "Whose street? Our street."
Organizers are on a flatbed truck with a sound system. A band on the sidewalk is enjoying "Rage Against the Machine."
3:45 p.m. Davis, Olsen communicate at rally
Civil rights activist Angela Davis is helping to get protesters warmed up earlier than the 4 p.m. march to the port. Scott Olsen, a 24-year-old Iraq War veteran who suffered a serious head injury when protesters said he was once hit with a tear-gas canister throughout a clash with police in October, additionally addressed the crowd.
"It's a extraordinary day to be out here for my first event," Olsen said. "I seem forward to marching with you and joining you as soon as again. ... Stay peaceful, remain safe, and let's do some real action."
Hundreds of people are gathered at Frank H. Ogawa Plaza in front of Oakland City Hall.
3:30 p.m. Organizers to crowd: Bring your sound asleep baggage tonight
Monday night's blockade will lengthen into early Tuesday morning in response to police movements in Houston, organizers announced at the three p.m. rally in Frank Ogawa Plaza.
2:30 p.m. Concert at 14th and Broadway
An Oakland-based hip-hop group, Zion I, is performing at Frank Ogawa plaza. About 200 people are gathered there earlier than the scheduled 3 p.m. rally.
1:45 p.m. Occupy Cal protesters to march to Oakland
Occupy Cal organizers are planning a cohesion march to Frank Ogawa Plaza for the West Coast port blockade. They've despatched a textual content message calling for demonstrators to converge at 2 p.m. in Sproul Plaza.
12:40 p.m. Two arrested by Ports America entrance
Two human beings have been arrested round noon for impeding site visitors at the entrance to Ports America, Oakland Police Chief Howard Jordan pronounced at a information briefing this afternoon. Jordan stated seven activists had been in the beginning current and that five of them left on their personal after officers arrived. He stated no one was once injured and that the officers did now not use force.
12:30 p.m. Union spokesman: Three-fourths of people sent home
While a spokesman for the Port of Oakland stated this morning's demonstrations brought on "minor disruptions and delays," ILWU spokesman Craig Merrilees says 150 of 200 people were sent domestic for security reasons.
11:50 a.m. Protesters head back downtown
Protesters have headed returned to Frank Ogawa Plaza. About one hundred are gathered there. A few remain at the port, however are not stopping truckers.
10:55 a.m. Live chat with OakFoSho
A live chat will happen in a few minutes with citizen journalist OakFoSho and Martin G. Reynolds on the port protest today. Check it out at http://www.insidebayarea.com/live-chats /ci_19530470
10:19 a.m.: Demonstrators declare victory, go away port
Demonstrators are marching again to West Oakland BART, and are pitching things to do at Ogawa Plaza. "We won," protesters said.
Protesters previously danced and taunted police after claiming they were profitable in the shutdown of the port.
10:08 a.m.: Protesters begin to disassemble
Protesters announce that the morning shift of workers was sent domestic at Port of Oakland. They declare victory and start to disassemble.
9:05 a.m.: Police forces patrolling via boat
The Oakland Police and the Alameda County Sheriff's departments both have officers in boats patrolling from the estuary.
Smaller branches of protesters are picketing at the gate on picket gate on Maritime and at the SSA terminal.
8:49 a.m.: Police effort expanding at port
ABC 7 TV is reporting that a number of police in rebellion gear have now moved into a line to block protesters.
8:40 a.m.: Rig honking as they ignore by
Rigs passing via the scene honk as they pass demonstrators at berths 55-56. Meanwhile, protesters are ready for a union arbitrator to declare port at 2505 Middle Harbor Road unsafe. So far, no announcement.
8:19 a.m.: Protesters announce arbitrator called in
Picketers announce they're watching for arrival of arbitrator to decide whether there will be any more port recreation today.
There is a sparse line of truckers waiting, although many are turning around to leave.
8:15 a.m.: Protesters block vans from entering port
A crew of protesters at Middle Harbor Roads have blocked Gate 55, 56, 57 There are a couple dozen vehicles strains up in both directions. There are no verbal exchanges between drivers and protesters.
Alameda County Sheriff's deputies are standing watch.
7:35 a.m.: Demonstrations mellow
Demonstrations are mellowing out at Port of Oakland at berths 30-32. Protesters are chanting: "Who shut down the port?" "We shut down the port!"
7:30 a.m.: Police presence minimal now
There is minimal police presence at the initial prong of protesters, with about 500 protesters so far. Police are estimating there are 1,500 protesters, total.
7:23 a.m.: Protesters acquire at other ports along West Coast
In Southern California, as many as four hundred demonstrators gathered in a park and deliberate to march on the Port of Long Beach, the Associated Press reports. Occupy protesters say they graph to head to a dock facility owned by using SSA Marine, a shipping agency that is partially owned with the aid of Goldman Sachs, AP said.
The International Longshore and Warehouse Union, which represents longshoremen up and down the West Coast, stated it would not
Fatal error: Maximum execution time of 30 seconds exceeded in /home1/j1u2h4n0/public_html/rewritearticlepro.php on line 26