Posted: Oct 15, 2011 8:52 AM PDT
Saturday, October 15, 2011 11:52 AM EST
Updated: Oct 25, 2011 8:54 AM PDT
Tuesday, October 25, 2011 11:54 AM EST
By Mary King - email



"Occupy" protesters take to the State House grounds
COLUMBIA, SC (WIS) - A protest group who says there is a hassle with greed, government and Wall Street took their cause to the State House Saturday morning.
Around one hundred fifty protesters, calling themselves "Occupy Columbia", gathered in the front of the State House at 9:00am.
"That's been the kind of splendor of this total thing," stated protester Travis Bland. "This entire Occupy motion is that every body has their grievances and they say, 'Hey this is a discussion board for me to let my voice to be heard.'"
The group received its roots from the "Occupy Wall Street" demonstrations in New York where cries for a separation of large companies and politics began returned in September.
"They want to remain over there and handle their money with their people," stated protester Sarah Parker. "Don't feed cash to my president to attempt to get them to do what they want."
Political science professionals like USC professor Dr. Robert Oldendick who have been monitoring the Occupy motion say it symbolizes the frustration of Americans on many levels. But they add the argument for exchange may additionally be better urged in every other direction.
"Really the trouble is, and what these Occupy moves appear to be searching at is that there is too a lot cash in politics," said Oldendick. "And the answer to that is not on Wall Street -- two it's in Washington."
Some Columbia protestors agree. While calls for exchange ring nationwide, specialists add if political change is made, it might not show up overnight.
"To get cash out of politics includes campaign finance reform and as we've got considered in the past couple of years it is been going in the contrary direction," said Dr. Oldendick.
It is now not known when the protest will end, however protest organizers say they are prepared to remain overnight if they are allowed.