Occupy Santa Cruz types human chain at Lighthouse Point
By Cathy Kelly
Posted: two 10/24/2011 01:30:39 AM PDT


SANTA CRUZ --
About 150 Occupy Santa Cruz protesters joined fingers Sunday at Lighthouse Point Sunday in a human-chain demonstration against greed and inequity.
Organizers said they have been displaying that the neighborhood arm of Occupy Wall Street is "united in peace and pushing for monetary justice and accountability in the United States." Event literature protested the consolidation of wealth in the fingers of a few, with trillions of dollars poured into prisons and wars whilst crucial social offerings are slashed.
The gathering blanketed people of all a while and tiers of involvement in the mushrooming movement. More than one participant referred to they were phase of the 99 percent, making use of an Occupy slogan about the broadness of a movement for those who are not amongst the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans.
Woody Carroll, 51, carried a flag as rode his bike up to be a part of a brief pre-chain rally. Carroll, who works in the UC Santa Cruz film and digital media department, said it's the first Occupy Santa Cruz rally he has attended.
"Like most Americans, I'm indignant and I'm looking for a way to categorical that to categorical unity with Occupy Wall Street," he said. "Our political procedure has been sold and sold. There is too much influence by firms and the rich.
"It's in the material of Americans to protest and demand redress. You do what you can where you are."
The demonstration commenced with song via the Sadza Marimba Band and a short midday rally before the team stretched out along the railing fronting Monterey Bay, lining up towards Pelton Avenue and achieving bleachers erected for next week's Cold Water Classic. West Cliff Drive was bustling on a sunny fall day, and countless motorists honked horns as they drove by.
Bonnie Loya and Lynn Martin had been taking walks collectively down West Cliff when they determined to be part of the chain.
"It's great," said Martin, a 63-year-old school custodian. "It's about time. We've been grousing about matters considering earlier than Obama, and we have not honestly completed some thing so visual. I think it's wonderful."
Demonstrators held a sequence of symptoms that made experience only when held together. One multi-sign message talked of the ripples created by way of a pebble solid into a pond, whilst every other known as for marketing campaign reform and one referred to that "all sentient beings have the right to pursue happiness and live in peace and freedom."
Those in the chain sang numerous songs in unison, such as "This Land is Your Land."
Joy Binah, 56, a Santa Cruz artist and farmer, helped organize the event.
Binah has been searching for a loan amendment from Wells Fargo Bank when you consider that November, and stated she has had to reapply each 60 days because the bank does not act on her request.
She added that she would be a part of the motion even if she had no mortgage problems.
"We have 1 percentage of the populace controlling the remainder, and the time has come to put an cease to the oppression," she said. "Wouldn't it be outstanding if we should connect these companies across the United States?"
Others spoke of misplaced homes, lost jobs and misplaced faith in government.
An organizer of Occupy Santa Cruz, Noah Shepardson, stated the Santa Cruz team held its first ordinary assembly Oct. 4.
Based at the courthouse steps along Water Street with a camp in close by San Lorenzo Park, the motion has held quite a few marches and protests at Santa Cruz branches of countrywide banks.
Shepardson stated the human chain went well, and that extra are in the works.
"It used to be excellent," he said. "There used to be a virtually excellent turnout and we received a lot of exact public support. I suppose a lot of human beings who spent time out there on West Cliff bought at least a little glimpse of what we're about."