Santa Cruz metropolis legal professional sues Occupy campers for nuisance
By Stephen Baxter
Posted: two 11/12/2011 01:30:34 AM PST


SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz town attorneys have filed a lawsuit against Occupy Santa Cruz to give up being a public nuisance at San Lorenzo Park, the place demonstrators have been camping considering Oct. 8.
Judge Timothy Volkmann is expected to rule Wednesday whether the city's injunction served Thursday will be granted to give up what deputy metropolis attorneys calls a nuisance in the park. Deputy City Attorney Caio Arellano named Occupy Santa Cruz felony team member Steve Pleich in the suit as properly as a hundred John Does.
Pleich, who stated he does not communicate for the group, stated he would assist argue the group's case in court.
"I'm going to be defending myself to the fullest extent of the law," Pleich said Friday. "We may want to abate the nuisance besides leaving the park."
Deputies served a handful of citations for lodging to the camp early Friday morning.
Mayor Ryan Coonerty stated Friday that the lawsuit was once filed in section due to the fact park people and park users have complained about troubles in the camp.
"Most of the complaints are coming from county workers who are seeing feces, drug use and other illegal things to do happening," Coonerty said. "They prefer us to take action."
Santa Cruz police also suggested that a camper punched a county parks worker in the face Nov. 2 after the laborers leaf blower woke him early that morning. The man was arrested on suspicion of assault, Deputy Chief Steve Clark said.
On Nov. 4, metropolis officers gave Occupy leaders a permit for the demonstration, which used to be no longer requested with the aid of the demonstrators. It ordered the activists to disband the campsite via midday Wednesday and clarified different guidelines of the park that addressed trash, loos and other issues.
Dozens of the city's homeless have been drawn to the park no longer necessarily as a political declaration but because they are regularly now not ticketed for lodging or unlawful camping, authorities said.
"What I hear from most residents is that they overwhelmingly assist the Occupy cause -- as does the City Council -- however we're just concerned about the fitness and security influences on the park. Every other team in Santa Cruz who holds an match like this has a allow and has conditions, so we're simply asking the identical from this group," Coonerty said.
The Occupy Santa Cruz team formed as an echo of the Occupy Wall Street protest in New York that opposes countrywide financial institution bailouts and economic disparities countrywide.
Coonerty stated City Council individuals discussed the lawsuit this week.
Vice Mayor Don Lane and other city officials have mentioned the tenting problems with Occupy leaders quite a few times to attempt to iron out an settlement for the camp to give up when the permit ends on Wednesday.
Coonerty said town leaders are attempting to keep away from a "showdown" with Occupy campers and a compelled withdrawal.
One rule in the allow required the demonstrators to furnish three transportable restrooms in parking spots on Ocean Street. There is one transportable restroom there now, Pleich said.
The leaderless Occupy Santa Cruz "general assembly" has now not but determined whether or not to add greater toilets, he said.