5 of 14 DOCUMENTS
Monterey County Herald (California)
December 5, 2011 Monday
BYLINE: By STEPHEN BAXTER and CATHY KELLY Santa Cruz Sentinel
SECTION: STATE
LENGTH: seven-hundred words


Occupy Santa Cruz dismantled
SANTA CRUZ The building at seventy five River St. is vacant once extra and the "Occudome" outside the courthouse has been torn down.
Confrontations between law enforcement and Occupy Santa Cruz, alongside with what Occupy says is a splinter crew that took over a former bank constructing final week, ended peacefully late Saturday and early Sunday.
A group of about 30 humans who had occupied an empty River Street building considering Wednesday left the constructing Saturday night, Santa Cruz police said. No arrests were made and police are compiling a record on damages and figuring out those who had been involved.
Several individuals of Occupy Santa Cruz stated the River Street group in no way sought consensus from Occupy Santa Cruz.
Meanwhile, about 6:30 a.m. Sunday near Occupy Santa Cruz's encampment, about 60 county sheriff's deputies removed an "Occudome" tent and other belongings of Occupy Santa Cruz that had accrued close to the courthouse steps on Water Street, however made no arrests and wrote no citations. Sheriff's Lt. Craig Wilson stated deputies had been meeting with some group participants earlier than clearing the area, and that while a small crew at the beginning used to be combative, most had been cooperative.
Wilson stated deputies left in the back of medications, symptoms and other property and are streamlining the reclamation process for these items regulation enforcement did confiscate. He said the team was welcome to protest there, but should not camp or block get admission to to county buildings or walkways.
Back throughout the river, police had been negotiating with human beings who took over the building that previously housed Coast Commercial Bank at Water and River streets and then ordered them out Saturday afternoon. Authorities found the constructing empty when they arrived at 9:30 p.m. Saturday, police spokesman Zach Friend said. Sunday, the building's parking lot was cordoned off with yellow crime tape and a protection guard stood watch.
The occupiers, who said they wanted to flip the building into a community center, had said they would leave the constructing with the aid of 3 p.m. Sunday, but police demanded they depart immediately, Friend said.
A crew known as 75 River Community Center launched a announcement Sunday pronouncing the occupiers "chose to exit the constructing considering the fact that it grew to be clear that police have been concentrated on a small team of individuals no longer without delay concerned with the occupation."
The crew stated in its statement, "The police and some media have focused on Wells Fargo as the 'victim' in this scenario. ... The actual injustice is human beings being pillaged out of houses they spent years working legitimately to gain through an objectively grasping and inherently predatory legal entity."
The property used to be offered in 2008 with the aid of Wells Fargo, which has a branch throughout the street. County files indicate that the building's proprietor is Associates 1 and Thomson Property Tax Services.
A girl leaving the constructing Sunday, who stated she was once a consultant of the property owner, would say only that there used to be "a lot of debris" inside.
Police stated the harm tally for the building's occupation would include regulation enforcement costs. Friend stated charges in opposition to those worried should encompass trespassing, vandalism and conspiracy.
Chief Kevin Vogel said there used to be enough injury to arrest these inside for legal vandalism. Police say they have been documenting who's been inside the constructing and have a number of names, which include a customary anarchist.
"We'll be looking to prosecute these people to the fullest extent possible," Vogel stated Saturday night. "I'm pretty pleased it used to be resolved this way. I'm sorry it had to get to this."
Meanwhile, city leaders expressed satisfaction with the resolution of the occupation.
"I'm very pleased that we have been in a position to resolve this without inserting our officers and neighborhood at risk," Mayor Ryan Coonerty said. "I respect the strategic leadership by our Police Department."
The Police Department had been crafting the exit approach in view that Wednesday night time when they backed off of their first attempt. That night about 30 officers in rebellion equipment surrounded the entrance of the constructing however have been met with shut to 200 protesters who have been blocking off the entrance, which had been barricaded from the interior with workplace furniture.
Police determined to regroup and advance a strategy.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC: A member of Occupy Santa Cruz confronts a sheriff's deputy after the encampment on the courthouse steps was razed early Sunday morning.
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 The Monterey County Herald
All Rights Reserved