Posted: Oct 08, 2011 4:02 PM PDT
Updated: Oct 09, 2011 5:41 AM PDT
By Anne Thompson - bio | email

Hundreds "Occupy Cincinnati"
CINCINNATI, OH (FOX19) - two two two two two two two two two two two two
Hundreds gathered at Lytle Park Saturday morning to "Occupy Cincinnati." The group then marched thru downtown, and wound its way to Fountain Square where it had secured a allow to meet. Speakers, music, and rallying in opposition to company America have been all protected in the day's activities.
A huge variety of signs and symptoms helping or protesting quite a number reasons may want to be seen, but Mardell Glinski-Schultz of Greenhills informed Fox 19, "If you stroll round and appear at the signs, nearly everyone introduced out their personal agenda, however I suppose that there is a common denominator and I assume that common denominator is greed. It's the energy of the corporations. The government is no longer for the people, and every one of these problems in its very own separate way relates to that."
According to occupycincinnati.org, the crew believes that 1% of the country's population has accrued 99% of the wealth. Justin Jeffre attended the protest also, "We believe we have a duty to make this a better, greater fair, equitable society. We have too tons poverty. We have too lots adult poverty and toddler poverty in this u . s . and we're right here to exchange that. We're right here to demand change."
Similar protests have unfold from New York City to cities throughout the country, and beyond. two But critics of the group's message are talking up, too. In Washington D.C., House Majority Leader Eric Cantor stated of the developing protests, "I for one am an increasing number of worried about the developing mobs occupying Wall Street and the different cities across the country. And accept as true with it or not, some in this town have sincerely condoned the pitting of Americans in opposition to Americans."
In Cincinnati, Hamilton County Republican Party Chair Alex Triantafilou tweeted Saturday, "I'm going to occupy my office so I can make a living." two He told Fox 19 that he definitely understands that human beings are very pissed off with modern-day economic conditions however he disagrees that company America have to be their target, "We can bash firms however some outstanding corporations exist in our community and create lots of jobs so look, I recognize the frustration about this however at the cease of the day, firms create jobs and this is important."
It's estimated that about 500 human beings took part in the protest. Cincinnati Police say it remained a peaceful one.
According to the Occupy Cincinnati Twitter and Facebook pages, protesters will acquire again Sunday at Garfield Park at 6:00 am, with a General Assembly assembly at 2:00 pm.