18 of 20 DOCUMENTS
The Virginian-Pilot(Norfolk, VA.
October 9, 2011 Sunday two
CLIPPER FR Edition
BYLINE: MARJON ROSTAMI MARJON.ROSTAMI@PILOTONLINE.COM, 222-5207
SECTION: Pg. 2
LENGTH: 435 words


Chesapeake man helps prepare 'occupy norfolk'
While lots across the united states have been marching in team spirit with Occupy Wall Street, a Chesapeake native spearheaded the Occupy Norfolk protest.
James McPherson, a 24-year-old Old Dominion University and Oscar Smith High alumnus, played a key position organizing the nearby movement, which attracted about 30 humans Thursday, the countrywide day of protest.
The night before Thursday's national march, he and a few others from the team took the Chinatown bus to New York to journey Occupy Wall Street for themselves.
"We have been only there for possibly 10 hours," McPherson said. "We just variety of wanted to lay eyes on it before we started out it here.
"There were hundreds of humans - students, unions, all distinctive people - who would honestly like to see the country wide speak reset."
The team tried to rally in with the Occupy Wall Street demonstrators, who have protested towards what they say is corporate greed that has multiplied the hole between the richest 1 percent of Americans and the rest.
Holding symptoms studying "I am the 99%," the small crew sat round the parking lot at Harbor Park on Thursday waiting for the applicable permits to cross to a more seen vicinity downtown.
McPherson, who has a part-time job, said he predicted the crowd to grow over the weekend and eventually needs to get a allow for tenting out downtown. A purpose is to make Occupy Norfolk a permanent movement, comparable to New York's, the place protester numbers have been growing for the past three weeks.
"Why ought to Norfolk pass over out on a motion that ought to potentially have an effect on the countrywide talk on a political issue?" he said. " This is my first try at a political movement. We're dealing with a motion of humans who are no longer usually political activists. We need to increase consciousness domestically and get people politically conscious."
COMING UP IN CITY HALL
After months, possibly years, of pushing for the form of strategic planning session that would remaining extra than a few hours on a Tuesday night, Councilman C.E. "Cliff" Hayes' efforts are paying off.
City Council is scheduled to preserve a planning session Wednesday, Oct. 19.
Other South Hampton Roads cities keep annual retreats, some a couple days long, to make sure the City Council is properly informed by the one of a kind departments and on upcoming issues.
"CHESAPEAKE SPEAKS UP"
Near the stop of the month, the City Council will host a "citizen input session" to provide residents the hazard to comment on the 2011-12 budget, which went into impact July 1. The meeting will be Oct. 27 establishing at 6 p.m. at the Chesapeake Conference Center.


Marjon Rostami, (757) 222-5207,
marjon.rostami@pilotonline.com
LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Virginian-Pilot Companies LLC
All Rights Reserved