Woman stabbed at Occupy Baltimore encampment, police say
Police say dispute was over cat
By Justin Fenton
6:16 p.m. EST, December 5, 2011


Baltimore Police say a 24-year-old lady was stabbed in the course of a dispute around middle of the night Saturday at the Occupy Baltimore encampment at the Inner Harbor.
According to a police report, officers arrived at McKeldin Square just after midnight for a file of an assault and spoke to the victim, who said she and 23-year-old Desiree Nicholson had gotten into an argument due to the fact (Nicholson) was once now not taking care of her cat, according to report.
She stated Nicholson kicked her in the stomach, and then stabbed her on her arm and thigh with a knife. The victim used to be taken to Johns Hopkins Hospital for treatment, police said.
Nicholson, who police stated lives in Halethorpe, was charged with first-degree assault and used to be being held on $75,000 bond. According to courtroom records, she does not have a prior crook record.
The Occupy protest, a local offshoot of the Occupy Wall Street motion that seeks to name attention to profits inequality and different issues, currently reached its two month anniversary. But it has struggled at instances deal with a dwindling range of core leaders, the reputedly imminent hazard of eviction, and allegations of crime and drug use amongst some who have frequented the encampment.
Organizer Annemarie Rush stated the sufferer and suspect have been staying at the website online for pretty some time, but they are now not viewed to be lively contributors in our larger goals.
We have attracted a wide array of one of a kind components of Baltimore, and special humans who feel they have been disenfranchised, Rush said. That also includes all of the troubles that come with Baltimore and society in general.
She said organizers were horrified by the stabbing and said the suspect was not welcome back. "We dont condone their moves at all, she said.
As police across the country have evicted protesters in some cases main to unpleasant clashes and claims of police brutality two officials here have largely taken a hands-off approach, denying approves for the use of the park but announcing they would implement that denial at a time of our choosing.
The City of Baltimore is dedicated to defending men and women proper to protest. However, everlasting camping is prohibited in our public parks and humans are free to peaceably bring together and display within the presently set up guidelines. The city has repeatedly communicated this to people on-site, stated Ryan ODoherty, a spokesman for Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake.
He added that the city would utterly inspect any person acts of unsafe criminal conduct and take instantaneous action.
In their two months at the Inner Harbor, the group has taken part in a variety of protests and sought to spur public communicate about social issues. One homeless currently girl advised the City Council that the encampment had been accommodating in ways the metropolis hasnt been.
But previous allegations of theft and assault have roiled the group. At meetings of participants, called normal assemblies, audio system have in the previous brazenly questioned whether they could maintain manipulate of the various community.
Rush stated organizers have no graph to leave. This is just the first step in the Occupy movement, she said.
An beforehand model of this article quoted organizers pronouncing the victim and suspect had been nonetheless welcome at the encampment. Rush stated that is now not the case.


Link:http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/crime/blog/bal-woman-stabbed-at-occupy-baltimore-20111205,0,1089654.story