1 of 15 DOCUMENTS
Chapel Hill Herald (Durham, N.C.)
December 14, 2011 Wednesday
Final EDITION
Occupy makes inroads
SECTION: A; Pg. 1
LENGTH: 697 two words

CHAPEL HILL ? In the two months on the grounds that Occupy Chapel Hill first set up tents on Franklin Street, the team has commence to make inroads with nearby congregations.
On Sunday, Occupy Chapel Hill protesters visited the United Church of Chapel Hill to talk about the congregation's emotions about the movement, permit protesters to give an explanation for their goals, and to discover factors of unity.
Both intention for a loving neighborhood and eradication of social injustice, stated individuals of both groups.
"The movement is about having a loved community and about how people treat every other," stated Steve Peterson, an Occupy supporter and church member. "And it appears a lot distinctive from how we're residing now."
Prior to the service, Tom Tiemann, an economics professor from Elon University and member of the church, set the stage for th e "99 percent" argument.
He described wealth distribution in the United States, pronouncing the pinnacle 1 percentage of American's make about $500,000 per year, in contrast to the backside 50 percentage who make less than $60,000.
However, Tiemann stated that the real problem was inside the top one-tenth of 1 percent, who make more than $2 million annually.
But Farzin Barazandeh, an Occupy supporter, stated the motion is about more than money.
"We speak a lot about 1 percent, 99 percentage and division of wealth," he said. "But it is something larger than that. It's about social justice."
The United Church has a committee for social justice that works to improve social and economic conditions for the underprivileged.
see occupy/page 3
"We want change," Barazandeh said. "And who are the fantastic humans to stand for it? The people of faith, due to the fact they are mandated to stand for justice."
Peterson, who mediated the discussion, asked attendees to "twinkle" their fingers to exhibit aid for ideas. Vincent Gonzalez, an Occupy supporter and graduate pupil in religious research at UNC Chapel Hill, supported the notion, using "twinkle fingers" to show perception when human beings spoke, even when their ideas had been distinctive from his own.
One female in attendance puzzled the Occupy group's integrity and ability to abide via the law, asking why the congregation help a crew accused of lawlessness and breaking and entering, referring to the incident in November when a group of people associated with Carrboro's Anarchist Book Fair broke into the former Yates Motor building remaining month and distributed fliers urging people to "Occupy Everywhere."
Gonzales addressed this question, making it clear that none of the contributors present were a phase of that action. Although the Occupy Chapel Hill General Assembly ? a group assembly that conducts Occupy commercial enterprise primarily based on consensus votes ? released a news release criticizing police action at the Yates dealership, it also stated that the General Assembly had now not recommended the break-in.
Some demonstrators have been adversarial with the police, Gonzalez said, and in some places, the police have been adversarial with demonstrators, citing the incident at the University of California at Davis where police doused protestors with pepper spray.
But he stated the motion has many numerous members and feelings.
"I desire to unfold the message that all of us, together, can work toward justice, even when we have orders to do otherwise," Gonzalez said.
But Pastor Richard Edens of the United Church stated it's regularly hard for church buildings to bridge the gap between charity and advocacy.
"It's some thing that would not come naturally," Edens said. "There's a gaining knowledge of curve that comes with advocacy, as nicely as a brave curve. "
In 2007, the church adopted an monetary justice covenant to govern social justice work. It describes the position of the church as a crew that will stand in opposition to social injustice and try to teach its members about the motives of poverty whilst taking care of these in need all over the world, no longer simply in the Chapel Hill community.
"Many communitites simply need to apprehend what they're already doing and make bigger upon it," Eden said. "It's a growing part of the church and we actively strive to link charity and advocacy. This is a congregation the place people do step forward."
No formal plans for a partnership have been installed for a union between the two groups.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 The Durham Herald Co.
All Rights Reserved