1 of three DOCUMENTS
Chapel Hill Herald (Durham, N.C.)
November 20, 2011 Sunday
Final EDITION
Occupy positive factors support after arrests
SECTION: A; Pg. 1
LENGTH: 564 two words

CHAPEL HILL ? As Occupy Chapel Hill moved from the Peace and Justice Plaza down to Greenbridge Development and lower back on Thursday night, they have been accompanied by using the presence of blue lights.
The crowd marched approximately one hundred twenty humans strong, echoing chants including "Streets of Chapel Hill beware, Zuccotti Park is everywhere," and "Up with the streets, down with the walls." Expletives have been sprinkled in a few, observed with the aid of chants of "Freedom of speech."
Occupy Chapel Hill/Carrboro organized the Solidarity March. Liz Reeves, a Chapel Hill resident who has been involved with the team in view that its creation, said although the turnout was once large than preceding events, she wasn't satisfied.
"We can never have sufficient people," she said.
But, extra human beings have been attending the group's every day ordinary assembly meetings following a week of Occupy hostilities both on the neighborhood and national level. Thursday's march started out after that evening's meeting.
Early Tuesday, police in New York City emptied Zuccotti Park of its Occupy Wall Street protestors, sparking questions of censorship and police brutality.
Seven protestors, some of whom had been worried with the Occupy movement, had been arrested Sunday on misdemeanor counts of breaking and entering the former Yates Company Motors building on West Franklin Street. Occupy Chapel Hill/Carrboro reaches consensus in its assembly earlier than making any collective actions, and these humans had not been given consensus. But as guns had been wielded, the identical questions were raised in Chapel Hill that are being requested of police presence in New York.
"What happened in Zuccotti Park this week made me furious, and I figured this was the night time to come out and do something," said Drew Lindberg. The march was once the first tournament he's participated in with the Occupy movement.
The team marched down Franklin Street, and looped round on Rosemary, on foot in front of and around cars.
Jeremy Westland, a former Chapel Hill resident, had been protesting with Occupy Santa Fe for a month before coming to North Carolina to get concerned with Occupy UNC-Greensboro, the place he used to be a student. But after seeing the weekend's events, he was stimulated to assist Chapel Hill's group.
"I think the police cracking down on occupations throughout the country is building them up extra and riding the movement," he said. "People are commencing to see that this is a police state."
The the front of the march protected some of those arrested Sunday.
Jeff Clark, Chapel Hill Police Captain, stated the police's presence was due to the protection issues of a massive march going on after darkish and traumatic traffic. In addition to the everyday downtown officers, the police employed three additional automobiles for visitors control, Clark said.
"The match went well; the crowd typically stayed on the sidewalks," Clark said. "As long as we get via without any injuries, it is a success. Tonight was once very successful."
Reeves stated she believes the police presence was once largely due to the truth that the break-in came about after the group's last march, which she witnessed.
"After being held at gunpoint, I do not suppose the police are involved about my safety," she said.
A march that is no longer without delay related to Occupy Chapel Hill/Carrboro will be held 6 p.m. Monday starting from the Chapel Hill Police Department and going to the Town Council meeting, which will protest police brutality in response to the movements.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 The Durham Herald Co.
All Rights Reserved