Occupy Bangor demonstrators welcome families, kids
Nick McCrea, BDN Staff two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Posted Nov. 05, 2011, at 3:39 p.m. two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two Last modified Nov. 22, 2011, at 1:54 p.m. two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Kevin Bennett | BDN
Morgan Taheny (left) and her mom, Kara Taheny, be a part of Occupy Bangor protesters at Peirce Park in Bangor on Saturday, Nov. 5, 2011 for family day. The small team sang songs and did face paintings.
two two two two two two two two two two two
BANGOR, Maine two Three-year-old Morgan Taheny of Bangor danced as her mother, stepfather and grandfather sang alongside with some 20 Occupy Bangor demonstrators gathered Saturday to celebrate a day for kids and families.
On Morgans proper cheek was a crimson coronary heart and on her left was once a butterfly, each painted by using Sunny Hughes, a spokeswoman for Occupy Bangor.
Behind the girl, propped up in opposition to the statue in Peirce Park, signs study Make jobs, now not war, I dont like things that are unfair, or Dissent is Patriotic.
Get a job, you (expletives), a man shouted from a automobile as it traveled up Center Street hill behind the library.
A few demonstrators waved at the driver. Morgan didnt seem to take note and danced on.
The singing continued, with folk classics and nicely recognised youngsters songs, such as Baby Beluga, and Shake Your Sillies Out.
Off to the side, standing near a furnace to stay warm, Shawn Yardley, director of the town of Bangors Department of Health and Community Services, and his 13-year-old daughter Kira seemed on and listened to the music.
I wanted her to have a chance to see whats going on, Yardley said, adding that it was once vital for him, personally, to see what human beings in Bangor are talking about.
Kira stated her social studies category at All Saints Catholic School has been talking about the Occupy demonstrations.
Kira stated she has never spent the night time in a tent, and requested her dad if they ought to carry a tent down to the grounds and courageous the cold for a night throughout the demonstration.
Shawn Yardley said hed think about it.
We havent learned a lot about (the Occupy demonstrations), but thats why I came down here, Kira said.
Thats the motive of the family day, Hughes said. It offers children a threat to see the protest firsthand, and offers dad and mom a way of explaining to their kids what the Occupy motion is about, she said.
Hughes said she explained Occupy Bangor to her son by saying, the purpose that I (demonstrated) is so that I could appear him in the eye when hes older and say I did everything I could.
At noon, some demonstrators were scheduled to take a bus to Augusta to be part of Occupy protesters there for a march on the State House.
The team will then return and hold its presence backyard the library. About six demonstrators consistently remain at the web site overnight in tents set up on the grounds.
Its very cold, but we motivate humans to supply (sleeping in tents outside) a shot, she said.
Hughes said the demonstrators layout on an indefinite occupation, and that she hopes more human beings come out to join Occupy Bangor and show guide for the week-old movement, in spite of the cold.
Hughes 10-year-old son Skyler was on hand for household day, becoming a member of in on the songs.
During a spoil in the music, he stated he spends weekends during the day at Occupy Bangor, and now and again stops by using after school at some point of the week if there arent any different things to do scheduled after the final bell.
He stated children at school are curious about the protests, and that some have requested him why demonstrators havent given up.
I assume we shouldnt give up, Skyler said, due to the fact if we just supply up, nothings ever going to change.
https://bangordailynews.com/2011/11/05/news/bangor/occupy-bangor-demonstrators-welcome-families-kids/