(Gallery and Video) Occupy Iowa City Takes Over College Green Park
More than 200 humans gathered in College Green Park on Friday night time in harmony with the "Occupy" movement that started in New York last month.
Posted with the aid of Stephen Schmidt (Editor), October 8, 2011 at 02:16 pm


Occupy Wall Street has now formally spread to Iowa City.
Between 200 and 300 humans from all over Eastern Iowa gathered in for "Occupy Iowa City" Friday night, expressing frustration with the state of the country, with company control of their lives, and with the notable disparity of wealth between the richest one percent of profits earners and the relaxation of the nation.
"The machine is now not working," said Jeanne Green, 57, of Lone Tree, as she held a sign proclaiming "Tax the Rich" at the aspect of a nearby street, receiving supportive honks from passing motorists.
Green, who works at in Iowa City, said her two youth who have graduated college are struggling to discover precise work in present day economy.
"That's not the American Dream, that's no longer why I influenced them to go to college," Green said.
The crowd of people included the employed, the underemployed, and unemployed; local politicians, university students, young people and the elderly. All there for special reasons, however all, apparently, with a common experience that many things in the u . s . a . are broken, and need to be fixed.
The with the ongoing protest that at the start began last month in New York as a critique of the monetary sector's role in the meltdown of the world financial system in 2008.
Some of the protestors said they meant to stay indefinitely as a exhibit of help for the cause.
They claimed a section in the east facet of the park with tables, chairs, signs and symptoms and at least 15 tents to mark their territory. Earlier in the day, the police modified their tune with the aid of saying they would no longer attempt to push protestors out of the park when it closed at eleven p.m.
Still, the group will have to resolve some fundamental needs, such as bathrooms, cooking, heat and safety, if they are to prevail with a lengthy occupation. People had been stopping by using at some point of the nighttime with bags of groceries, baked items and different supplies, said Shay O'Reilly, a recent UI graduate.
"As lengthy as it takes," Hannah Staley, 19, a University of Iowa sophomore, said of how lengthy she plans to stay. "I in my opinion am right here because I am tired of how matters are, and it will be really worth the effort of figuring out what it takes to stay out here."
Boyfriend and girlfriend, Ricardo Mantilla and Misty Rebik, of Iowa City, had been one pair who stated they planned on staying on collectively as long as it takes to get congress and the president to reply to the movement's message.
"End the tax breaks for the companies and use that money to rebuild our infrastructure," said Mantilla.
Rebik agreed, iPhone in hand, sitting next to the red tent where she was once planning on spending the night.
"We do not have a debt problem in this country, we have a income problem," she said. "I don't necessarily have a trouble with a fair, equal tax rate for everyone, but the truth is that things don't seem to be honest proper now."
Late night, the crowd was once subdued.
By midnight, around 50 human beings were settled in for the night. Some had long gone to sleep, and others huddled around the park's gazebo, occassionally fielding questions from intoxicated students on foot through.
"The way the economic system has been handled, the way the bailouts have been handled," Jared Krauss, 21, a University of Iowa junior answered two human beings who recognized themselves as college students as to why he is protesting. "We are paying for tuition for college, and there are supposed to be jobs there for us, and they're not there."
The protest itself used to be civil, at least the early goings. The movement is leaderless, and decisions about the occupation had been made thru majority choices at a general assembly at the center of the park, with the crowd amplifying each speaker's advice by repeating what they just said, with every selection receiving approval or disapproval thru a smattering of hand signals.
And the decisions, for a movement that has been portrayed by some national media shops as either ineffectual or dangerous, had been exeedingly polite. Alcohol and tablets have been prohibited by group fiat ; the protest mission statement was left deliberately indistinct to welcome humans of varying political beliefs; the metropolis and the police have been identified for allowing the protest to peacebly show up ; and organizations were installed to provide meals to those who stayed and smooth up after they have gone, down to the last cigarette butt.
Clarence Johnson, a database administrator from Iowa City who attended the event, stated it would possibly show up from the outside like the movement has no clear goals, but that this is in fact intentional. He stated that considering that the motion already added collectively heaps of human beings to discuss about the nation's problems already fulfills a section of its purpose.
"If they had a listing of demands, or a leadership structure, this would enable people to mechanically prescreen themselves out because of the one section of it they don't agree with," Johnson said. "Regardless of where you stand on the political spectrum, we can all agree that there are actual problems that need to be dealt with."