Occupy Wall Street supporters gather in Albany two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
November 05, 2011 7:30 am
By Steve Lathrop, Albany Democrat-Herald



Brandishing selfmade symptoms and waving at passing two cars, greater than 60 human beings assisting the Occupy Wall Street movement lined up in downtown Albany late Friday afternoon to deliver their message.
About five counter-demonstrators were additionally on hand with signs and symptoms asking for remedy of their tax burden and from time to time debating with men and women from the large group.
The demonstration used to be peaceable and large than Edith Orner, one of the organizers, expected.
I concept we would get 50 so this is good, she said.
One of those on hand used to be Nancy Rose-Chism of Albany.
A lot of human beings here are retired, or unemployed or students, she said, but Im now not any of those. I wanted to lend my voice to taking lower back our money and our government.
Rose-Chism stated she was searching for a way to be a part of the developing movement and became to the Internet.
I searched for an Occupy Albany website and observed this, she said. Im one of the ninety nine percent.
So she made her personal signal and joined the rally.
According to Orner, many humans located out about the demonstration the identical way. She stated the notion got started amongst a small crew of human beings who meet as soon as a week. About a week in the past they determined to do something in support of the Occupy movements.
We simply stated lets get on that and we put something together as rapidly as we could, Orner said.
That meant placing posters round Albany, and using social networking, emails and the telephone.
It appeared to work. By 5 p.m. the crowd had swelled to almost 70.
Those at the rally lined up on all 4 corners of Fourth and Ellsworth displaying their signs and symptoms to passing traffic and pedestrians. Orner said the thinking was to show for about an hour.
Our concern is whats going on with the economy, she said. We dont favor to minimize the deficit on the backs of these who need (the money) most.
Rose-Chism said she wanted to be phase of some thing that used to be making an attempt to make matters better for the majority of the people.
I trust this is what most of the human beings want, she said.
No plans for additional demonstrations are in the works now, however that may want to change.
We may also have a follow-up discussion of some sort, Orner said. We favor to be phase of doing what we can for the higher good.
http://democratherald.com/news/local/occupy-wall-street-supporters-gather-in-albany/article_9cae0258-0743-11e1-bc5f-001cc4c002e0.html