City gives new rules
Memorandum to Occupy Albany seeks common ground from current talks
By JIMMY VIELKIND Capitol bureau
Updated 7:12 am, Monday, November 7, 2011


ALBANY -- City officers have delivered a memorandum of perception that affirms the proper of Occupy Albany demonstrators to continue to be in Academy Park but units down a number of floor policies for the two-week encampment.
"It's a end result of the conferences between the Occupy Albany people and the town to make positive we're all on the same page, in particular for issues of fitness and safety," stated Bob Van Amburgh, an aide to Albany Mayor Jerry Jennings.
The three-page record was delivered to Mark Mishler, an attorney aligned with the demonstrators, Friday night by way of Stephen Rehfuss, an legal professional who has often represented the metropolis in civil rights matters.
The memo would closing one week, with representatives from each sides reconvening two days before its expiration. It limits the encampment to three portable toilets, two propane heaters and one generator. It would forbid clotheslines between the park's bushes and open flames for cooking, which includes "Coleman-style" camp stoves.
"No everlasting or semipermanent constructions or signs and symptoms shall be maintained on the premises. No tents larger than those tents in modern times on the premises are allowed," the memo says. It additionally would restriction the encampment to 30 tents.
The variety has fluctuated, however there are round 50 tents in the park; a voluntary census Saturday night registered 36 tents.
The memo would also launch the city from liability for accidents within the encampment.
Most of the its provisions are tailored to the protest, an offshoot of Manhattan's Occupy Wall Street elevating concerns about economic inequality and company power, in its present day form. While some demonstrators have talked of the want to erect more everlasting safe haven -- perhaps a yurt with a woodstove -- Occupy Albany has made no concrete strikes to do so.
Mishler and eight other protesters met Tuesday with public safety officers in City Hall to discuss concerns round the protests, and Albany Fire Chief Robert Forrezzi led an inspection of the encampment Wednesday.
While Albany Mayor Jerry Jennings at first stated he would put into effect an 11 p.m. curfew in the park -- after discussions with top aides to Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who said they would put into effect a comparable curfew in adjacent Lafayette Park -- metropolis police officers and Albany County District Attorney David Soares resisted.
The result has been detente between the occupation and the city's government, i n distinction to cities like Rochester, the place police are arresting demonstrators nearly nightly for violating park curfews.
But the memo may be a step too a long way towards normalization, various demonstrators said Sunday evening. Mishler the record to over three dozen demonstrators for discussion, many of whom puzzled if Occupy Albany could ever sign it.
"What would that signature even mean?" Mishler asked, noting the fluid nature of the protest.
While no formal action can be taken earlier than the encampment's nightly well-known assembly Monday night, the three dozen demonstrators agreed to a five-part thought that inclusive of not signing the document.
The proposed response would additionally reiterate thanks to the City for respecting and imposing protections of First Amendment rights, declare understanding for the city's want to alter fitness and safety and reiterate its very own insurance policies and actions.
They also agreed to invite city officers to their nightly universal assemblies and reiterate their continued dedication to dialogue.
It's doubtful what the city's subsequent go will be. Many demonstrators viewed the proposed MOU to be an useless throwback on their part, given the city's whole tolerance to date.
What will the Jennings administration do if it is rejected, as proposed?
"That's a excellent question," Van Amburgh said.
Reach Vielkind at 454-5081 or jvielkind@timesunion.com.


Read more: http://www.timesunion.com/local/article/City-offers-new-rules-2255892.php#ixzz2VDJrJg2h