The Detroit News (Michigan)
November 15, 2011 Tuesday
1-dot Edition
Vote nowadays may additionally extend stay
BYLINE: By, Josh Katzenstein and Darren A. Nichols
SECTION: NATION; Pg. A3
LENGTH: 489 words
By Josh Katzenstein and Darren A. Nichols
The Detroit News
Occupy Detroit asks for eviction delay


Detroit - Occupy Detroit learns today if the City Council will supply its request to remain longer in Grand Circus Park.
Members of the movement also are in search of housing for the iciness while nonetheless protesting in the city.
The crew wanted to stay in Grand Circus Park, the place they've been dwelling given that Oct. 14, after their 30-day permit was set to expire at 10 p.m. Monday.
The occupiers - stimulated by means of the protests on Wall Street and somewhere else seeking social, political and economic alternate - are hoping for a two-week extension so they can easy up the park.
"We need a little time. We prefer to go away in a peaceful and orderly manner," said Sarah Coffey, a member of Occupy Detroit.
The group began the appeal procedure Monday morning earlier than the city's public fitness and security committee, and met with the City Council to are trying to find the extension.
Lee Gaddies, a member of the movement's media team, said the minimal extension the crew could request was once two weeks, however they layout to be out within the next few days.
Council individuals set a vote on the extension for today, however on Monday, theyappeared prepared to approve the request.
"I am for extending the agreement," Councilwoman Brenda Jones said.
Added Council President Pro-tem Gary Brown: "We're attempting to find a resolution that will meet all" parties' needs.
During the meeting, Deputy Police Chief James Tolbert heeded the advice of the council and stated there were no plans for arrests or evictions when the allow expired.
Members stated metropolis police have been helpful on account that the encampment started and don't concern the opportunity of raids comparable to these these days in Portland, Ore., and Oakland, Calif.
"I don't suppose people are worried. I suppose we'll be fine," said Juan Martinez, 35, of Detroit. "No count what happens, we've got received contingency plans for everybody."
The team has three areas the place it will go when the time comes. T here's workplace space on Woodward in Detroit's downtown and a warehouse and 50-unit motel in southwest Detroit, all of which have been donated to the group.
Some members of the crew moved supplies from camp to the different areas last weekend.
At a established meeting meeting Monday night time in Grand Circus Park, many members accepted a suggestion to keep the southwest Detroit region as a assembly location at some stage in the winter.
They pushed for that because the space wouldn't be able to double as housing for all members, Coffey said.
The crew is exploring different housing picks to maintain participants together - specifically for individuals who would possibly no longer have anywhere else to go, she said. "We desire to preserve human beings concerned ... so they continue organizing."
Having a presence in the metropolis helps the movement's "activism and mass mobilization that is going to pressure the reform of America," stated Zachary Steve, some other Occupy member.
jkatzenstein@detnews.com
(313) 222-2019
Staff Writer Mark Hicks contributed.