Weekly Roundup For November 4, 2011
Posted on three November 2011.


HUMBOLDT OCCUPATIONS CONTINUE: Defying oncoming rain and frost, occupiers climate on after 27 days and nights. Occupy HSU has 10 pupil campers sleeping on the Quad. Occupy Arcata, with 10-15 demonstrators, has moved its encampment quarters from the Arcata Plaza to the Arcata City Hall garden staying one step beforehand of severa complaints. The Arcata Eye offers us the modern day chapter in authentic Hoover fashion reporting the humps and lumps taking vicinity there.
In Occupy Eureka, 15 occupiers are preserving down their narrow patch of sod with tents and a makeshift kitchen two no matter the No Camping symptoms drilled into the Courthouse lawn early ultimate Thursday morning and a phalanx of 6 officers reportedly staring them down from across the road the night time before. It was once pronounced by witnesses that independent news media have been denied get right of entry to to the Occupy Eureka protest remaining week leading to the verbally abusive and adversarial change of phrases via activist Kim Verbena Starr. Starrs agitating actions and temper have been later disapproved of as not being representative of the demonstrators and not condoned by means of the Occupy Eureka General Assembly when the censorship criticism was once introduced ahead the following day.
Eureka Police Department officers had been dispatched to US Bank this Wednesday in response to a file that protesters in darkish garments and masks have been inflicting a disturbance via shouting and banging on the banks window with a massive stick. Officers located the activists a few blocks away, protesting outdoor Bank of America and Chase. Rumors are circulating on proper authority the protesters days are numbered: overnighters occupying the courthouse garden will quickly be evicted in short order by way of the long boot of EPD, perhaps through the time you examine this. Nonetheless, the local Moveon.org chapter is organizing its members to aid the Occupy protesters with a rally at the County Courthouse, Saturday from 1-4 p.m.