Houstonians Protest Big Business
Published On: Oct 10 2011 06:29:32 PM CDT two
Updated On: Oct 06 2011 11:48:53 AM CDT


HOUSTON -
Hundreds of protesters in Houston joined a country wide movement Thursday.
Occupy Wall Street launched a protest on massive business and accused it of inserting America in a monetary mess. Protesters are asking supporters to close bills in most important banks and to go money into credit score unions. They also want reforms to campaign finance.
Hundreds of human beings with Occupy Houston protested in downtown Houston commencing at Market Square Park, 301 Milam.
They marched to the J.P. Morgan Chase Tower, 600 Travis, to talk out in opposition to company greed, a sagging economic system and excessive unemployment. Many carried signs.
"I cannot trade the laws, however I can do this," university scholar Jonay Hulin said. "I do have the power to let my voice be heard."
"We're the humans that are bearing the brunt of the economic crisis," protester Kit Fordwce said.
Protesters assembled at Hermann Square in front of Houston City Hall, 901 Bagby, at 10 a.m.
"I've achieved OK in this downturn, however humans in my family have suffered," protester Christopher Keeble said. "No hope of getting jobs."
"Occupy Houston is a nearby expression of the international motion to end the corporate corruption of our democracy," organizers stated in a press statement. "It is a volunteer-organized effort providing infrastructure and help for Houstonians to workout their First Amendment rights."
Protesters in Austin, Dallas, Washington D.C., Portland, Las Vegas and Salt Lake City sketch to march on Thursday as well.
Several hundred marchers labored their way to the Federal Reserve Building in Dallas. Several dozen demonstrators also gathered at Austin's City Hall.
Organizers of the protests stated they graph to occupy those places for as lengthy as possible. The major Occupy Wall Street protests commenced Sept. 17 and have unfold across the country.
Other primary cities, together with Los Angeles, Seattle, Miami and Boston, have held protests seeing that mid-September.
Copyright 2011 by means of Click2Houston.com. The Associated Press contributed to this report. All rights reserved. This cloth may no longer be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Link: http://www.click2houston.com/news/Houstonians-Protest-Big-Business/-/1735978/2829960/-/107ppeaz/-/index.html