Hartford Courant: http://www.courant.com/
Occupy Movement In Hartford Pictures
The "Occupy Wall Street" movement reached Hartford, with gatherings starting Oct. three at Bushnell Park. And it appears that their occupation will be ending Dec. 6 at 6 p.m.


Occupy Hartford Marches To State Capitol And LOB
( Bettina Hansen, Hartford Courant / October 27, 2011 )


Occupy Hartford protesters make their way from the campsite at Turning Point Park on Broad Street and Farmington Avenue to the Legislative Office Building and the State Capitol Thursday.
Jennifer Willett, 29, of West Hartford, a PhD scholar in the UConn School of Social Work, chants while marching down Broad Street Thursday. Occupy Hartford called for students to stage a 2:00 p.m. walkout and collect at their campsite on Farmington Avenue and Broad Street at 3:00 to march to the State Capitol to protest excessive tuition. All PhD students in the UConn School of Social Work took the afternoon to be a part of the protest. 'I think (the teachers) would have been upset if we didn't,' said Willett. She said her instructors were a little disappointed that the college students instructed them about the walkout. 'They said, 'Don't ask permission to start a revolution.'
Occupy Hartford protesters enter the Legislative Office Building in downtown Hartford Thursday.
Police tell Occupy Hartford protesters marching thru the Legislative Office Building in Hartford that they are no longer allowed to demonstrate inside the building through chanting or carrying signs with sticks on them.
State Capitol police inform Occupy Hartford protesters that they are no longer allowed to reveal by using chanting and waving symptoms inside the Legislative Office Building and ask them to go outside.
Occupy Hartford protesters exit the Legislative Office Building after being asked to go away by means of State Capitol Police.
State Capitol police stand shield outside the Capitol doors as Occupy Hartford protesters acquire outside.
State Capitol police speak with Occupy Hartford protesters about coming inner the Capitol. After agreeing now not to chant or carry in giant signs, they have been allowed inside.
Occupy Hartford protesters communicate their minds for the duration of a sit-in at the State Capitol Thursday.
State Capitol police stand by means of under a massive statue of an angel in the course of Occupy Hartford's sit-in protest at the State Capitol.
Link: http://www.courant.com/community/hartford/hc-occupy-wall-street-movement-in-hartford-20111005,0,3067250.photogallery