December 19, 2011 6:33 PM


Denvers New Police Chief Puts Occupy Denver On Notice
DENVER (CBS4) two Denvers new police chief put Occupy Denver on note Monday his staying power has run out.
Chief Robert White met with protesters for nearly an hour, telling them they need to put off their stuff from Civic Center Park or the city will.
It was the chiefs 2nd warning, and it is actually his last. He didnt say when or how the stuff will be removed, only that he wont compromise. That didnt make Occupy Denver very happy.
Ten individuals of Occupy Denver got forty five minutes with White in a assembly that happened behind closed doorways and ended with neither aspect budging.
Civic Center Park has been trashed. The new sod has been trampled and the sandstone is covered in graffiti. There are makeshift shelters and a kayak in a tree.
On Thursday the chief advised protesters himself they should stay, however the encumbrances had to go. He used to be greeted with contempt and profanity.
Occupy Denver took video of the meeting and posted it on YouTube.
Productive to the factor where I suppose I understood their position and I suppose they apprehend the citys position, White said.
I dont suppose it was once very productive, a protester said.
So I dont choose to get into the strategies of how thats going to occur, however will inform you it is going to occur, White said.
He stated hes given adequate warning.
I think it would be in all of our fantastic interests to avoid any confrontation, White said.
While protestors said they wouldnt resist, they also wont help.
You recognize we have been hoping to have more of a creative conversation however its the same old; the kingdom says encumbrances ought to go, the protester said.
Its not simply authorities pronouncing that. Theres now an online petition force urging the metropolis to liberate the park. Since Sunday 194 human beings have signed it. Most of them have voiced sentiments like Kendall Peterson, who wrote, I assist the Occupy motion and its core principals. The destruction of public property and century-old art is not supporting their cause. It is unlawful vandalism pure and simple.
The Civic Center Conservancy, a nonprofit set up to restoration the park, put the petition together. Every time anyone signs and symptoms it, it generates anemail to the city and Mayor Michael Hancock.