24 of 156 DOCUMENTS
The Denver Post
October 15, 2011 Saturday
FINAL EDITION
Right to shut public web sites long set in law
BYLINE: John Ingold The Denver Post
SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-20
LENGTH: 328 words


The protesters gathered throughout from the state Capitol early Friday had a familiar refrain: "Freedom doesn't have a curfew," they chanted.
But when the proper of the humans to collect and protest comes crashing into the authority of a authorities to set the guidelines for public property - as it did in Lincoln Park late Thursday and early Friday, when police moved to evict the protesters - the regulation leaves little to doubt.
"Obviously protesters have the proper to use public boards like parks, but it is now not an unlimited right," said University of Denver regulation professor Alan Chen. "The Supreme Court has held quite honestly that authorities is able to modify speech in what are referred to as time, area and manner regulations."
That means, on kingdom property, the nation authorities can efficiently create ordinary commercial enterprise hours. If the park is "closed," the protesters have a a whole lot harder venture arguing that it is illegal to get rid of them.
The nearly 30-year-old case that set up the regulation is strikingly comparable to the Occupy Denver protest. In Clark vs. Community for Creative Non-Violence, the Supreme Court decided that a rule that prohibited tenting in a park close to the White House - and averted protesters from napping in the park overnight - was once real looking due to the fact the government had an pastime in maintaining the park from getting trashed.
The key, Chen said, is the regulation have to be steady and follow to everyone, not just certain companies of protesters. That is the place country and Denver officials might discover themselves in a spot of prison bother, Chen said.
Because the state closed the park indefinitely after eliminating the protesters, the activists may have an opening to argue that their rights were violated because the authorities shut down their forum altogether.
The American Civil Liberties Union of Colorado also raised that question, calling on Gov. John Hickenlooper to reopen the park to protesters by way of 5 a.m. Sunday. The governor has now not said when his order will be lifted.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 The Denver Post
All Rights Reserved