KBCD: http://www.kcbd.com/
Mayor says Occupy Lubbock protesters can stay
Posted: Nov 15, 2011 2:30 PM PST Updated: Nov 15, 2011 4:35 PM PST
LUBBOCK, TX (KCBD) -


While the Occupy Wall Street protesters have been evicted from Zuccotti Park, the protesters of Occupy Lubbock have been given a green light by means of Mayor Tom Martin.
"The land at 19th and University is road proper of way, it is not a park. So there is no curfew on that specific piece of property. The people that are engaged in the Occupy Lubbock motion are exercising first amendment rights," Martin said.
Martin stated the protesters will be allowed to continue to be "as long as it is no longer being torn up and as long as they're no longer inflicting a disturbance."
But at least one local business would like the protesters to go on.
Staybridge Suites is proper next door to the protest. The proprietors say they've misplaced a number of customers due to the fact of the protest and have complained to the police more than one instances about protesters the usage of their facilities. Police say they have received less than ten complaint calls from the public.
There are much less than a dozen protesters at the 19th Street location, but they say they're in it for the long haul. They constructed their tent town a month in the past and are making time in their work and faculty schedules to maintain it.
Protester Andrew McMillan said, "I do have a job with the radio station and I am a full time Tech pupil graduating in June."
The Occupy Lubbock team is decided to get its message out, using social media and making symptoms - using donations and their very own money to maintain a presence 24/7.
Protester Matt Fouss said, "I just got paid on the 10th, spent about $60 greenbacks on sign making substances and delivered a printer out right here so we can begin this faces of Lubbock billboard."
The protesters are concerned about profits inequality and are decided to power the company have an effect on out of politics. They have contacted Congressman Randy Neugebauer and have obtained responses from his assistants, which they hope will help.
"When the annual average income of the bottom of ninety percentage is $31,000, in the meantime the pinnacle 1 percentage annual average income is $1.13 million, there is a problem. That's a big gap. It creates this phantasm that humans can climb their way up the ladder, when in actuality it's not possible," McMillan said.
Winter is coming on fast, however the protesters have winterized tents and generators. They say they're prepared to stay.
Copyright 2011 KCBD NewsChannel 11
Link: http://www.kcbd.com/story/16048445/mayor-says-occupy-lubbock-protesters-can-stay