Occupy L.A.: More than 200 arrested in peaceful sweep
November 30, 2011 | 5:47 am


Without resorting to large-scale violence, Los Angeles police effectively cleared out the Occupy L.A. camp at City Hall early Wednesday, managing to avoid fierce confrontations that marred sweeps in Oakland and New York.
Hundreds of police officers swarmed the massive camp at City Halls south garden shortly after midnight, encircling the demonstrators in much less than 10 minutes. By quickly setting up a perimeter, police managed to take manipulate of the scene in the first moments of engagement.
No tear gasoline was once used in the shutdown of what was once the nation's largest final Occupy camp. More than 200 human beings had been arrested in the operation that concerned 1,400 officers.
They had been like storm troopers. They encircled us, stated protester Cheryl Aichele, who was sitting in the center of the south garden in a circle with other protesters when police first entered the camp.
The protesters generally saved to their promise of confronting the police peacefully. While some taunted police verbally and a few rocks were thrown, most protesters either left on their own or nonviolently submitted to arrest, with many going limp and forcing the police to carry them out.
Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck used to be cozy in the first few moments after the raid.
That was once the hardest part, Beck stated of the first rush of officers into the park. That first contact: You examine if your officers are going to break ranks and if human beings are going to get physical. It went as well as we should have expected.
In a count number of minutes, officers poured out of City Hall and from streets in all directions, encircling the park as protesters linked arms and chanted, "We are peaceful" and "We are the 99%."
It was once a stark departure from historic LAPD crowd manage techniques, Beck said. In years past, police would have used a single skirmish line to sweep via the park and push human beings out.
Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa regarded proud and relieved after the eviction, and thanked officers in a short predawn news conference.
I stated that right here in L.A., wed chart a exceptional path. And we did, Villaraigosa said.
Speaking with the mayor, Beck stated he had hooked up a relationship with the protesters early on in the seven-week demonstration.
Most protesters seemed to eschew violence, and downtown did now not see any of the violence of the variety that erupted in Oakland last month, when protesters began fires, police used tear fuel and some protesters suffered serious injuries.
By early Wednesday, the ultimate final protesters had holed up in a palm tree simply outside Villaraigosa's office. The protesters smoked cigars as they joked with police, at one factor asking police to carry them beer.
The second spoke to the generally light tone of the eviction. Moments before police entered the park, protesters have been setting off fireworks. After they entered, a man who refused to go away advised an officer: "If you provide me a hug, I will depart right now."
"Are you serious?" the officer asked with a smile. He regarded for a moment geared up to comply, however then moved away.
Still, there have been some moments of tension. A disagreement built early in the evening on the nook of 1st Street and Broadway, the place a crowd drawing near from the west, looking for to be part of protesters at City Hall, used to be stopped by a line of police carrying face masks and armed with batons.
On Main Street, one protester yelled at police: "Remember your mother! You're no longer here to beat up citizens."
Twenty-eight-year-old Sam Gray, an Army veteran, stated he is angry that the city "took its phrase back."
"I took an oath to uphold the Constitution and in my opinion, the police are trampling on it," he said.
Toward the stop of the operation, a large crew of protesters that had locked hands in the center of the south lawn chanted to police making arrests: Youre sexy. Youre cute. Take off your rebellion suit.
Earlier in the night, at the police staging place outside Dodger Stadium, a supervisor instructed a team of officers that they wanted to be organized for some protesters to combat back.
"They've received a bunch of concrete gravel and other matters they're going to throw at us," he said. "Please put your face masks down and watch each other's back."
Amid fears protesters had saved urine and feces to throw at officers, some have been sporting white protective physique suits.
The conclusion of the raid marked the end of a two-month tent city that the City Council at first welcomed, with then-Council President Eric Garcetti telling protesters they may want to "stay as lengthy as you need."
But city leaders started out withdrawing their assist as the demonstrators seemed decided to continue to be indefinitely.
By 5 a.m., the protest website online used to be in shambles, and what was left of the tents was once strewn throughout the ground.