94 of one hundred twenty five DOCUMENTS
Contra Costa Times (California)
November 29, 2011 Tuesday
Port of Oakland girds for blockade
BYLINE: By Cecily Burt Oakland Tribune
SECTION: BREAKING; My Town; Alameda; Oakland-Berkeley; News; Local
LENGTH: 711 words


The Port of Oakland is girding for some other blockade on Dec. 12, six weeks after a Nov. 2 widespread strike coordinated with the aid of Occupy Oakland shut down the port overnight.
This time, however, the planned Dec. 12 monetary motion is predicted to have an effect on all West Coast ports as Occupy moves in Los Angeles, San Diego, Oakland, Portland, Seattle and Tacoma have so far voted to be a part of the demonstration.
The International Longshore and Warehouse Union is now not sanctioning the strike, but records has shown that will not end man or woman participants from supporting the blockade by way of refusing to work. Occupy organizers hope that union contributors will not cross wooden lines.
Between 7,000 and 10,000 humans marched on the Port of Oakland the afternoon of Nov. 2, clogging the entrances and roadways. Although transport terminals closed down early, some truckers were blocked through the sea of human beings as they tried to drive out.
The action prolonged into the night and successfully shut down the port for the ultimate two shifts of the day when dockworkers either couldn't get to work or stayed away to support the strike.
The Nov. 2 strike, coupled with a work stoppage via longshoremen at the SSA and Trapac terminals due to protection issues over refrigerated transport containers, created a backlog of cargo that took days to resolve.
"The union is no longer helping it, is no longer coordinating the action with Occupy Oakland," stated Richard Mead, president of ILWU, Local 10. "We assume that working humans aren't getting a truthful share and we help the fundamental of Occupy Wall Street, however we don't support shutting down our own jobs."
Isaac Kos-Read, director of exterior affairs at the Port of Oakland, stated the port is working with all its partners -- business, authorities and law enforcement -- to stop any disruption in the go with the flow of goods to and from the port.
"Disrupting operations will only harm working people, right here and for the duration of the country and country," Kos-Read said.
"This is an vital time of yr for us, a massive time of 12 months for exports. We are the export gateway for Northern California ... and this yr is a bumper crop for almonds."
Kos-Read stated that the popular shut downs are a concern for companies that already do enterprise with the port as properly as those corporations the port is trying to woo. Aside from the temporary impacts, the blockades and strikes ought to have lasting monetary influences for employers and employees throughout the location if groups pick other ports to cross their goods, Kos-Read said.
"We prefer people to understand the influence on working people and our potential to create jobs," he said. "The port is where the ninety nine percent work."
Barucha Peller, a member of the Occupy Oakland blockade assembly, referred to as that a "right-wing analysis.
"Everyone from rank-and-file longshoremen to the port truckers recognise we all have to make a sacrifice," she said. "When we withdraw our labor, we make a (dent) in the 1 percent. Economic boycotts are very effective. The occupation motion is shifting into a larger and more coherent approach of how to disrupt the profits of the 1 percent."
The Dec. 12 action used to be hatched at Occupy Los Angeles when it voted to shut down SSA terminals at the Port of Los Angeles and Long Beach in cohesion with truckers who were fired when they tried to unionize, Peller said.
The blockade quickly unfold up and down the West Coast. Peller said Occupy Oakland joined the blockade in unity with Los Angeles and with ILWU participants in Longview, Wash., who are combating in opposition to a sketch to use nonunion labor at a new grain facility owned by using EGT. She additionally said the West Coast blockade was once in response to the coordinated attacks against Occupy camps round the country.
The blockade will commence with a three p.m. rally at Frank H. Ogawa Plaza, observed by means of a 4 p.m. march to the Port of Oakland, Peller said. A separate group will gather at the West Oakland BART station at 5 p.m. earlier than marching on the port, she said.
Peller stated the movement expects hundreds of humans to participate in the action, along with many who hoped to replicate their journey on Nov. 2. She warned that any disruption or use of violence with the aid of law enforcement in any of the cities would be cause to prolong the blockades.Inside
Protesters build symbolic shape in Frank H. Ogawa plaza. Page 2


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC: A makeshift signal hangs from the chain link baricade set up with the aid of Occupy Oakland protesters at the Adeline Avenue entrance to the Port of Oakland, Calif., Thursday, Nov. 3, 2011. Demonstrators succeeded in shutting down the port till about 9 a.m. (D. Ross Cameron/Staff)
Occupy Oakland protesters make their way to the Port of Oakland on Wednesday, Nov. 2, 2011 in Oakland, Calif. Police estimated the crowd at nearly 4,000. (Jane Tyska/Staff)
Occupy Oakland protesters take over a railyard immoderate peak detector shape at the Port of Oakland rail yard off Middle Harbor Road in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday, Nov. 2, 2011 as heaps of humans shut down the port at sunset. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Contra Costa Newspapers
All Rights Reserved