61 of one hundred twenty five DOCUMENTS
Whittier Daily News (California)
November 21, 2011 Monday
An Occupy L.A. participant desires of altering the world
BYLINE: Bethania Palma Markus
SECTION: NEWS
LENGTH: 1775 words
Photo gallery: Occupy Los Angeles day of action


Since late September I've been hanging around the tent metropolis now surrounding L.A. City Hall that is Occupy Los Angeles, in a range of modes of commitment and involvement.
Early on I was once outraged each through my developing lack of ability to cope financially in spite of working full-time and galvanized with the aid of pix coming from Occupy Wall Street. After many years of passivity, ultimately it regarded a serious organic social justice motion used to be evolving in the United States.
To me it appears many contributors early on had been center type whites propelled by way of a degree of monetary injustice and worry that used to be new to them. A Wall Street increase and crash a la 1929 and alarming numbers of domestic foreclosures, unemployment, developing poverty stages and waves of people about to run out of unemployment insurance have led some to evaluate the Occupy movement to the tent cities of the Great Depression.
While the plight of the center class may have garnered the now-omnipresent media attention, minorities and the terrible who have traditionally borne the brunt of economic injustice have gotten on board the Occupy educate in hopes of subsequently equalizing the badly unbalanced popularity quo. There is now a crowd of roughly 500 very diverse human beings from all walks of lifestyles residing at the L.A. encampment. The lawn is full to capacity. You can't take a step besides trouncing someone's non-public impacts or tent tarp.
Occupy L.A. is now figuratively the ultimate man standing, as a ways as Occupy encampments. While authorities round the united states of america have swept Occupiers out systematically, the city of L.A. has taken a largely hands-off approach.
That is, till final Thursday.
That's when the LAPD, decked out in full SWAT regalia, descended en masse on Occupy L.A. marchers joined with the aid of union contributors as they made their way up Broadway north of Fourth Street at about noon, throughout from Grand Central Market downtown. Police rapidly closed Broadway, fencing off the street and sidewalk, ensuring that pedestrians would not be capable to see as they made what one witness later known as a violent arrest.
I'd been around Occupy L.A. for weeks and it was a surreal moment. For weeks I'd been seeing video photos of protesters in different cities get tear gassed, shot with rubber bullets and generally beat down by the police. But in L.A. the stand-offish stance taken by the police looks to have lulled human beings into a false experience of security.
So it used to be a shock to see the LAPD march in parade-style, with squad vehicles stacked as some distance as the eye should see down Fourth Street, even even though it sincerely should not have been based on what's been going on nationwide.
"What have they achieved wrong?" one onlooker requested an older police officer who was once manning the LAPD's fence as fellow law enforcement officials laid waste to the march. "Don't you suppose it is bizarre that those human beings are getting arrested?"
The officer smiled and spoke back wryly, "Ask me when I'm retired."
Later that afternoon I determined myself at the Bank of America plaza downtown, pressed from a crowd behind me particularly an awful lot proper up into the private house of an sad LAPD officer in full insurrection gear, who stored telling me to go returned as the people at the back of me had been pushing me forward. I was once staring at my buddies get handcuffed and an officer with a rubber bullet gun pace on a planter ledge in the front of me. The law enforcement officials outnumbered us with the aid of some ridiculous proportion. Someone instructed me due to the fact of city finances cuts, they weren't being paid overtime. Another man or woman warned us that they had been loading up the tear gas. The dispersal order was given. One line of law enforcement officials said we had 5 minutes to leave. On the other side of the plaza they stated we had 15.
Some protesters reduce thru the palpable anxiety in the air with humor. A group sang the "Fresh Prince of Bel Air" theme song. A petite younger lady apparently preferred the appears of one officer and requested loudly if he was married. Others had been greater pointed in their humor.
"Oh good, they're right here to evict Bank of America because of all the money they stole from us and all the houses they illegally foreclosed," protester Richard Florence stated ironically as LAPD officers swarmed in on all sides.
But the skyscraping BofA building used to be safe. It wasn't the financial institution that the law enforcement officials have been there for.
My Occupy L.A. friends have been pitching tents to "occupy" the Bank of America plaza. It was a gesture to confront the mega-bank accountable for thousands and thousands of home foreclosures throughout the u . s . a . with uncooked humanity. The juxtaposition of the newly-formed Occupy L.A. tent city at the foot of the behemoth Bank of America tower was once somehow heart wrenching. It was like seeing David difficult Goliath and questioning David couldn't possibly have a chance. Before long their little tents were picked up and thrown aside by using armored police as demonstrators were carried off in handcuffs. Somehow it all appeared the ideal analogy for what Bank of America and other institutions have been doing to homeowners by way of the tens of millions in this u . s . considering the fact that the starting of the foreclosure crisis.
And I didn't comprehend there were so many cops in L.A. I bet if I ever favor the LAPD's assist I'll carry a tent to Bank of America, because that is truly the way to get them out in force.
In all, seventy two Occupy L.A. activists were arrested Thursday, which include two younger men who clearly crossed a police line at an early-morning union march. It reminded me of a caption I'd considered on a photo of NYPD officers manhandling a lady at Occupy Wall Street.
"If solely they enforced bank rules like they do park rules, we wouldn't be in this mess."
Indeed.
While Occupy L.A. has viewed much less than its fair share of police enforcement, I have a suspicion it's coming soon. While the L.A. City Council rolled out the pink carpet early on, even distributing ponchos at one point, they now seem to be itching to get the tents and all the messy chaos that comes along with an indefinite encampment off their stoop. They've even long gone as some distance as apparently negotiating an "exit strategy" with a small group of occupiers they've maintained clandestine contact with.
But protests don't work like that. And in the lifestyle of the Occupy movement, we are going to peacefully hold our ground at City Hall as lengthy as physically possible, and come returned stronger, greater and better after the inevitable police raid goes down.
And even if they raid us and kick us out, we're already constructing a response. In response to a wave of attacks on Occupy websites and a lack of response to the wants of working humans nationwide, plans are underway by means of Occupy L.A.'s newly-formed General Strike Committee to coordinate with Los Angeles and Long Beach port workers, Occupy Oakland and Occupy Long Beach to shut down all West Coast ports on Dec. 12. This will be followed by means of a build-up to a great conventional strike on May 1.
But till Thursday, Occupy L.A. hadn't had a lot of police contact. It's probably because, as others have noted, Occupy L.A. hasn't had a lot of action. Many of the protesters within the encampment and those participating outside it have noticed too and are frustrated. While protesters in New York have been shutting down the Brooklyn Bridge, those in Oakland have been shutting down a port, and these at UC Davis have been forcing campus police and a chancellor to walk off in shame, Occupy L.A.'s weekend activities have mostly consisted of track festivals, lectures and most recently, a health fair. Not that these are horrific things. They're good. But people are waiting for strategic action. And it's coming.
I'm no longer announcing I prefer to get a police baton over the head or have my cranium fractured by using a flash bang grenade like Iraq hostilities veteran and protester Scott Olsen did when police raided the Oakland encampment closing month. But I did not get involved to hold out at L.A. City Hall and pay attention to music. As the Beatles said, "we all choose to change the world." Well we do. And proper now the world seems to need some changing.
This may additionally be due to the fact the preliminary tone at Occupy L.A., or OLA, as it is now being called, was once set with the aid of human beings who at the early planning tiers desired to cooperate with the city so a good deal that they obtained permission from the Police Department to set up their encampment. These same humans additionally have functioned as "city liaisons," reporting to and meeting with town officials and police besides letting the rest of us comprehend what's going on in those meetings. I'm distinctly sure this kind of recreation would be shunned with the aid of other Occupy movement sites.
Despite the frustrations, I see manageable and haven't been in a position to stroll away, like some have alas done. There are wonderful, shrewd humans who desire to create a better world, and who appear to be ready for the chance. And what better region than Los Angeles, California, maybe one of the most numerous metropolitan areas in the world? Now that the NYPD has raided and swept the encampment at Zucotti Park in New York City and many different locations, my understanding is that Occupy L.A. is the biggest and most tenable Occupy website online remaining. So perhaps my frustration will pay off in that Occupy L.A. has been left standing long enough to act as a beacon to Occupiers all over the u . s . who have been displaced and prefer to enjoy a warm iciness a la Los Angeles. I have heard they're already on their way from New York and Boston, and I've viewed a lot of humans at Occupy L.A. from Oakland, Orange County, Riverside, San Bernardino, Long Beach and Pasadena becoming a member of in.
And whilst humans might also have their differences, 500 or so from the homeless to the Ivy League-educated, are tenting at City Hall. There is no predominant race or type illustration that I can see. It's a noticeably well-blended mix of people who all share a common concern: The financial machine is damaged and doesn't work for most people, they want a better one and the U.S. political device isn't always imparting any realistic answer s.
On Sunday, L.A.-based band Aztlan Underground played and indigenous dancers carried out in traditional costume on the south garden of City Hall. The band's lead singer said Occupy L.A. used to be an autonomous community, tons like the ones that governed indigenous people that lived on that very spot before they have been wiped out by colonization. With the ghostly Native American-themed song accompanying feathered headdresses swishing and the odor of incense heavy in the air, all in the shadow of LAPD Headquarters towering in the background, it could have been a disjointed dream. But there used to be little doubt in my thought that Occupy L.A. and its sister sites all over the united states and world are indeed autonomous from the device that changed the Gabrielino Indians that used to stay the place we're pitching our tents now.
Bethania Palma Markus is a former reporter for this information group.


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC: Bethania Palma
Occupy Wall Street demonstrators rallies in downtown Los Angeles on Thursday, Nov. 17, 2011. (SGVN/Staff picture by Watchara Phomicinda/SVCity)
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved