12 of 14 DOCUMENTS
The Associated Press
October 19, 2011 Wednesday 10:07 PM GMT
Latest trends in the global Occupy protests
BYLINE: By The Associated Press
SECTION: DOMESTIC NEWS
LENGTH: 469 words

Some of the today's traits in the Occupy protests taking region in cities throughout the world:
LONDON
Hundreds of demonstrators gathered backyard St. Paul's Cathedral over the weekend. Many have given that hunkered down outdoor the cathedral, pitching tents and setting up a makeshift kitchen, bathrooms and an records center. Until now, church personnel individuals have allowed the protesters to remain. But in a announcement released late Wednesday, St. Paul's said that the "increased scale and nature" of the camp could make it more tough for the cathedral to continue to be open for worshippers and tourists.
NEW YORK
A plainclothes police officer who's becoming regarded as the "hipster cop" for his fashion feel says he thinks his rising profile helps "break down a lot of walls." Detective Rick Lee, 45, has been the difficulty of a great deal Internet chatter for displaying up at Zuccotti Park for his work as a neighborhood affairs officer sporting slim ties, cardigan sweaters and thick-framed glasses.
Rainy weather put a damper on the protests Wednesday, with demonstrators huddled underneath tarps. A couple of die-hards stood in the downpour holding up American flags and sporting gasoline masks.
SOUTH CAROLINA
Charleston is known for its Southern hospitality. Now it's enjoying host to the region's most modern "Occupy" protests. Occupy Charleston received a permit to continue to be at a metropolis park commencing Wednesday, and about 30 human beings confirmed up. The allow lets in agencies of up to forty nine people to protest outside City Hall, banks and other locations. If the crowds were bigger, the marches would require a town parade permit.
CALIFORNIA
Sacramento police say nine protesters associated with the Occupy Wall Street motion had been arrested at downtown's Cesar Chavez Park on suspicion of being there after hours and failing to disperse. City officials had refused to grant a permit allowing them to remain in the park overnight. Laura Peck, police spokeswoman in the California capital city, said the nine were amongst about 100 people demonstrating; the different protesters complied with police orders to leave. Sacramento police have now arrested around 70 people.
NORTH CAROLINA
Police in Asheville arrested 4 humans for washing windows. Protester Amy Hamilton said she and nine other demonstrators have been cleansing up the Merrill Lynch building when 4 were arrested Tuesday on suspicion of trespassing. About 200 human beings have participated in Asheville, a metropolis in the Blue Ridge Mountains of western North Carolina.
OHIO
Some demonstrators marched to a Cincinnati City Council assembly to voice problem over what they stated were some leaders' obvious opposition to the protest. The crew also wishes the metropolis to change its rule banning people from a downtown park after closing hours. A federal decide on Tuesday had ordered a brief give up to the police ticketing of the protesters.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Associated Press
All Rights Reserved