264 of 392 DOCUMENTS
CNN Wire
November 14, 2011 Monday 11:31 PM EST
Cities fighting to deal with occupy movement
BYLINE: CNN
LENGTH: 921 words
DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO (CNN)


SAN FRANCISCO (CNN) -- Police in rebellion equipment moved into the Occupy Oakland
encampment Monday, tearing down tents and arresting some protesters, the latest
effort with the aid of town officials throughout the us of a to achieve manage over a movement that
some leaders say has become a public protection and fitness threat.
Oakland, California, police, aided by means of dozens of officers from nearby
jurisdictions, arrested 32 people in the effort to clear Frank Ogawa Plaza near
City Hall earlier than dawn, Interim Chief Howard Jordan said. There had been no reports
of injuries or complaints of abuse, he said.
The camp had end up an insufferable drain on town resources, an economic hazard to
nearby organizations and a danger to public safety, Mayor Jean Quan said.
"The encampment grew to be a vicinity where we had repeated violence and this week a
murder. We had to carry the camp to an stop before more human beings were hurt," she
said.
The traits in Oakland come amid rising situation from town officials around
the united states of america that the protests drain sources and threaten public health. What
started as the Occupy Wall Street movement in New York in September has spread
across cities global as a name to action in opposition to unequal distribution of
wealth and other issues.
In Oregon, Portland police made greater than 50 arrests Sunday as they cleared two
parks -- Chapman and Lownsdale Square -- of protesters.
Police known as in reinforcements from surrounding jurisdictions, and greater than
300 officers took phase in the sweep -- which went off without incident,
authorities said.
"We acted proactively," Portland Mayor Sam Adams told reporters on Monday. "We
were now not going to wait till somebody died in a camp."
He thanked police and different metropolis personnel for their work and encouraged
protesters to locate a new outlet.
"I hope that this Occupy Wall Street motion will focal point and pivot and realize
its plausible as a country wide and international movement.," he said.
In Philadelphia, Mayor Michael Nutter stated Sunday that what commenced as a
peaceful protest 39 days ago has given way to increasing public security and
public health concerns.
"Occupy Philly has changed," Nutter said. "We're seeing serious health and
safety problems playing out on an nearly each day basis. ... The human beings of Occupy
Philly have also changed and their intentions have changed. And all of this is
not proper for Philadelphia."
A lady pronounced she was sexually assaulted Saturday night time in a tent at the
encampment, Nutter said. CNN affiliate WPVI suggested a suspect was arrested in
the alleged assault.
The mayor additionally referred to the danger of fireplace close to historical City Hall and concerns
about litter, public urination, defecation and graffiti.
Numerous reports of thefts and assaults in the encampment have been made, and 15
emergency clinical runs had been made between October 6 and November 11, he said.
Protesters are additionally blocking a deliberate $50 million renovation at Dilworth Plaza,
where they are camping, threatening jobs of workers on the project, Nutter said.
The protesters are "purposely standing in the way of almost 1,000 jobs for
Philadelphians at a time of excessive unemployment," Nutter said. "They are blocking
Philadelphians from taking care of their families."
"We have things we need to do," Nutter said. "I recognize that they have things
on their thought as Americans and wish to specific their free speech. I understand
that, I get that, I've defended that. The matters we're speakme about, the
activities that are going on, are not about free speech. They're public health
and public protection worries that have nothing to do with Wall Street and
corporations."
In Denver, police arrested three protesters on Sunday, a day after taking 17
people into custody in a dispute over clearing furnishings and tents that city
officials stated have been blocking off a proper of way.
Police in Tulsa, Oklahoma, arrested six people and issued four citations for
remaining in a park past curfew Sunday night, Officer Jason Willingham said.
In Nashville, authorities pushed aside fees in opposition to fifty five Occupy protesters who had
been given trespassing citations. The protesters had been demonstrating at the
state Capitol grounds.
The prosecutor in the case asked that the costs be dismissed, and the judge
agreed, Tennessee General Sessions Court administrator Warner Hassell said.
The Oakland operation will possibly fee the metropolis between $300,000 and $500,000,
City Administrator Deanna Santana said.
City officers planned to easy up the plaza and reopen it to protests by means of Monday
evening.
Jordan stated metropolis officers will enforce a ban on tenting in the park with an
around-the-clock police presence. But he stated peaceful demonstrators would be
allowed to stay at the web site round the clock, if they wished, so long as they
don't bring tents, sound asleep luggage or other "lodging equipment."
"If you are not breaking the laws, we're not concerned about your presence," he
said.
The plaza was once one of two Occupy camps in the city. The other, at Snow Park,
remained standing. Jordan said police would not cross against that camp on
Monday, but brought it ought to be dismantled later.
Protesters are meanwhile looking for a personal area from which to protest, city
officials said.
The decision to clear the plaza precipitated a longtime friend of Quan who described
himself as her criminal adviser to resign.
"No longer Mayor Quan's prison advisor. Resigned at 2 am. Support Occupy Oakland,
not the 1% and its authorities facilitators," lawyer Dan Siegel stated in the
post, which Siegel validated to CNN was accurate.
City spokeswoman Susan Piper described Siegel as a "volunteer adviser."


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
NOTES: Update 6:30 p.m. -- Adds important points on Portland protests in grafs 6-10;
trims
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Cable News Network
All Rights Reserved