forty eight of 49 DOCUMENTS
Virginia Lawyers Weekly
December 22, 2011 Thursday
Commentary: Trespassing...on a public street
BYLINE: Paul Fletcher
SECTION: COMMENTARY
LENGTH: 866 words


On Oct. 31, Ian Graham got dressed for work. Although he is a photographer and more likely to wear denims on the job, he put on a coat and tie.
Later that night he was once sporting handcuffs.
Graham works for RVA Magazine, an alternative enjoyment and arts publication in Richmond. That night, he had a free-lance gig to photograph a Halloween celebration at a today's Richmond nightclub.
Around 1 a.m., when the normal Halloween bash is at its scariest, he got a phone call from Preston Duncan, the publisher of RVA Magazine. The police had been moving on the Occupy Richmond site. Let's get over there and cover it, Duncan said.
The two men went to Kanawha Plaza in downtown Richmond, a public square that was once full of hand-lettered protest signs and a scruffy crowd of human beings who had been tenting there for weeks.
Like so many protesters in one-of-a-kind cities who sought to observe the instance of the "Occupy Wall Street" organizers, they railed, relatively indiscriminately, towards "greed" or corporate anything.
In an account published at rvamag.com, Duncan wrote that while he and Graham have been standing on the public sidewalk on the perimeter of the plaza, they have been threatened with arrest by way of the police. They moved to the place exact for journalists. But the view from that nook was obscured.
Graham walked to the center of a crosswalk to get a better angle. He was arrested for trespassing and handcuffed. There have been different humans on each sides of the crosswalk, Graham wrote in the equal account.
"But none of them had cameras," he added.
Graham was charged below Virginia Code two 18.2-119, a part known as "Trespass after having been forbidden to do so." It is a Class 1 misdemeanor punishable by using up to 12 months in penitentiary and a $2,500 fine.
Graham instructed me that he was supposed to have a listening to on Nov. 18; he and his lawyer, Patrick Anderson, anticipated the expenses to be dropped. But the Richmond commonwealth's attorney's workplace for some reason is enjoying hardball, so Anderson received a continuance.
Anderson, who has been retained with the aid of the American Civil Liberties Union to characterize Graham, stated he could not remark without to confirm that the depend is set for trial on Jan. 24. The Richmond commonwealth's attorney's workplace wasn't talking either; they did not return my name by press time.
Graham's case is one of eight situations throughout the u . s . a . in which journalists have been arrested while seeking to cover police recreation bearing on to Occupy protests. That's a big difference the City of Richmond, and the Commonwealth of Virginia, have to now not be proud of.
Journalist organizations in the commonwealth have lodged protests with police and prosecutors over Graham's arrest; there is even a Facebook crew referred to as "Free Ian Graham."
The Virginia Code offers a robust announcement of public coverage about how journalists have to be handled when covering news events. It's about police lines, but you will get the idea. Code two 15.2-1714 allows "personnel from data offerings such as press, radio and television" to cross a police line "when gathering news," so lengthy as they do not obstruct the police in their work. In other words, as a question of policy, journalists with cameras get to go where others can't, when they are protecting news events.
According to Mickey H. Osterreicher, accepted tips for the National Press Photographers Association, very few other states furnish such statutory protection to the news media. Virginia's statute is sturdy and should serve as a mannequin for other states, he said.
What exactly is Graham accused of? Here is the pertinent language of Code two 18.2-119: "If any individual without authority of law goes upon or remains upon the lands, buildings or premises of some other ... after having been forbidden to do so ... with the aid of the owner, lessee, custodian, or the agent of any such person, or other person lawfully in cost thereof ... he shall be responsible of a Class 1 misdemeanor."
This statute is used through landlords to get rid of deadbeat tenants, by using merchants to prevent suspected shoplifters from coming into a store and through public housing tasks to keep away undesirables. Ian Graham, armed with his digital camera and doing his job as a photojournalist, would not fit that list.
There are so many ifs to a prosecution underneath this statute: If Graham used to be there "without authority of law." If the officers issued a applicable warning, "forbidding" Graham from any locale. If the cops had been the custodians or "lawfully in charge" of the street. If this statute even applies.
The Supreme Court of Virginia has interpreted Code 18.2-119 and predecessor statutes in a wide variety of cases. In 1929, the court held that the trespass law does not observe to "thoroughfares," a role it has reiterated repeatedly. A 1990 Virginia Court of Appeals opinion described thoroughfares: "those methods or passages designated for public access." Sounds like a crosswalk to me.
Why hasn't this case been dropped? Why has Graham been compelled to lawyer up and sweat out a feasible reformatory term?
There's hardball, and then there is the pursuit of unwarranted criminal fees that aren't supported by the statistics or the law. Call that what it is: governmental intimidation and an abuse of an individual's basic rights.
Free Ian Graham?
Hell, yes. Free us all.


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires
All Rights Reserved