Posted through PD team of workers in Cities on November 13th, 2011
By MARY CALLAHAN
THE PRESS DEMOCRAT


Occupy Sebastopol seeks support, protests big banks
Occupy Sebastopol demonstrators put their voices, and their feet, in the back of the movement on Saturday.
Tim Ryan, 23, of the west county, protests with Occupy Sebastopol on Saturday outdoor Wells Fargo Bank. (KENT PORTER/PD)
Two days after the Santa Rosa City Council gave Occupy campers permission to remain on the lawn at City Hall if they meet a range of conditions, shut to 60 marchers in Sebastopol dispensed fliers at shops and workplaces alongside several blocks of downtown.
They hope enterprise proprietors will put up them as pre-printed statements of aid in improve of a Tuesday meeting at Sebastopol City Hall over their right to camp in the central square.
We favor human beings to open their minds to how much trade desires to happen, said Andrew DeRoos, 21.
The concept of holding the square is about developing the space for dialog, stated Erik Ohlsen, 32, who cut his activist enamel in the course of demonstrations at the 1999 ministerial conferences of the World Trade Organization in Seattle. Grassroots organizing takes time.
The march surpassed the branches of numerous national banks, the place supporters pumped their fists and chanted their dissatisfaction with traditional financial institutions. A few exuberant demonstrators shouted at once at a girl who used to be trying to exit the Bank of America, until some other supporter persuaded them to again off.
Otherwise, there have been no confrontations as the group walked alongside downtown sidewalks, observed intermittently through a police sergeant who tailed them in his patrol vehicle and later thanked the team for how you conducted your business.
It used to be their 2nd Sebastopol march. The first one, last Saturday in the rain, marked the start of Occupation Sebastopol in unity with a nearly two-month-old demonstration in New Yorks Wall Street vicinity protesting the awareness of political and financial energy in the fingers of corporations and the countries wealthiest one percent.
Though only a few humans have been staying the night in three or 4 tents erected in the northeast corner of the Sebastopol plaza, the town has alerted Occupy supporters that staying there violates metropolis ordinance.
They have been given a 20-page permit utility Wednesday nighttime thats supposed to be accomplished by way of Tuesday, quite a few individuals said.
But its not at all clear what the consensus for dealing with the citys demand will be.
As phase of the cross-pollination thats going on between demonstrators in extraordinary cities, Ben Browner, an Occupy Santa Rosa participant who helped negotiate a permit got final week for camping at Santa Rosa City Hall, advised his Sebastopol counterparts to make a right faith effort to meet the Tuesday deadline and avoid forcing the councils hand on imposing the ordinance.
Occupy Sebastopol members are to preserve a customary assembly assembly today Sunday to talk about how to proceed.
One supporter, Chris Rockwell, 33, stated it makes no sense for an character to accept accountability and liability for the complete team by means of taking out the allow in his or her name.
Rockwell said hes working to get the group integrated so the allow can be obtained by using the company entity though that would require additional time and the patience of the city council, he said.
Rockwell said the group, meanwhile, was once trying to be respectful in its use of the plaza, prohibiting alcohol, for example, and planning Sunday to pass the tents to every other component of the rectangular to spare the grass excess wear.
Ohlsen, who owns a local permaculture consulting and sustainable landscaping business, plans to keep ecological base camp plan education in Sebastopol on Tuesday for Occupy supporters.
Our intent is to work with the metropolis in as cooperative a way as we can, said Sebastopol resident Linus Lancaster, a Healdsburg High School artwork teacher and Navy veteran who has supported Occupy encampments in Santa Rosa and Sebastopol.
Lancaster stated he joined the Occupy Wall Street motion because its the first political movement Ive seen that in large phrases knows the issues America is facing in a systemic way.
Ive been ready for the revolution for four years, 88-year-old Geneva Folsom said. This is the first time Ive been passionate about getting out and fighting for something.
The marching, chanting and tenting out is just the opening of a manner aimed at raising awareness, enticing massive numbers and accomplishing consensus on common goals, demonstrators said.
In Santa Rosa, junior university commercial enterprise pupil Frank Anderson, 19, said hed camped out at Santa Rosa City Hall for nearly a month and now thinks of it as home.
When the hire on his rental is up Jan. 21, he plans to supply it up altogether in view that hes dwelling out the front of City Hall to assist the occupation.
When this goes down in the history books, he said, its going to go right subsequent to the Civil Rights movement.
http://www.watchsonomacounty.com/2011/11/cities/occupy-sebastopol-seeks-support-protests-big-banks/