Occupy Bloomington protesters preserve march on anniversary of beginning of Occupy Wall Street
By ERIC CUNNINGHAM | IDS
POSTED AT 09:36 PM ON NOV. 17, 2011 (UPDATED AT 02:30 AM ON NOV. 18, 2011)


About forty contributors of Occupy Bloomington organized for the 5 p.m. march.
Inside the tents of Peoples Park, they made sarcastic symptoms that stated such matters as Terrorism Terrorism Terrorism ... Stay scared GO SHOPPING.
Others watched the stay stream of the march in New York. Ray, a former worker of IU and present day member of the motion who declined to give his final name, sat by myself on a bench, knitting.
I would like to see the cutting-edge fiscal fiasco addressed, Ray said. This is supposedly a free market economy. But when you bailout banks that have failed ... well, what does that make you think?


Ray stated conflict of interest used to be created by the reinterpretation of the Glass-Steagall Act in 1987, which allowed for greater connections between lending and investment banks.
I suppose thats partially the place things went south into the current situation, Ray said.
Members of Occupy Bloomington gathered at the Sample Gates to begin the protest. They held signs and symptoms and shouted chants such as You are the ninety nine percent! and Banks bought bailed out, we got offered out!


The crowd began to march west on Kirkwood Avenue.


Everybody can pay their tax! Everyone however Goldman Sachs! they shouted. You pay taxes, so do we! Everyone without GE!
The protesters stopped by using the old courthouse downtown, and men and women made soap container speeches.
This day is a day of international solidarity, two said member Justinian D., who declined to provide his remaining name. Earlier these days I was staring at a live movement from Greece (the Occupy motion there). And you know what? They had been looking at a stay circulate from New York. How cool is that?
Another protester, Chris Albert, then took the cleaning soap box.


Why I am right here is because we want new ways to relate to every different and relate to the earth, Albert said.
When Albert stepped down to the crowd he smiled and said, So youre quoting me, huh? Well, then say this: Fuck capitalism. Its a device that forces humans to compete with each other and screw every different over in order to survive.
Then junior Evan Rocheford took the floor.
The era of greed is coming to an end, he said. We are the evolution. We are the revolution. This earth is shared. This earth is beautiful. Not something to be exploited.
The march endured around the Courthouse Square downtown.
Walking lower back to Peoples Park, retired nurse Charlotte Wolff said she had been hostilities for rights for forty years. She protested for civil rights, womens rights and the stop of the Vietnam War.
The end of the American Dream is when whatever the authorities gives you, it can take away, Wolff said.
She stated she is proud of Bloomington for this Occupy movement, and she is optimistic about its future.
It will preserve spreading, she said. You watch. Its too huge to go away. So let me ask you a question, younger man. What do you stand for?