24 Arrested As Protesters Pack Financial District
Foreclosed Families, Supporters March To Bank Of America
UPDATED 6:06 AM EDT Oct 01, 2011


BOSTON A team called Occupy Boston took over Dewey Square in Boston Friday night time maintaining a 60s-style take a seat in.
"It doesnt appear like the politicians are serving the people any more," said John, a protestor who would solely provide his first name. "Theyre serving people with money."
This is section of nationwide motion that started with a large protest last week on Wall Street.
"We're talking about authorities reform. Were speakme about finance reform," said Nadeem Mazen, from Occupy Boston. "And had been opening up a national communicate as section of a absolutely big trouble thats on so many peoples minds."
A few blocks away a team referred to as Take Back Boston lead thousands of human beings marching from Boston Common to the Financial District.
At one hundred Federal Street the protesters gathered at each entrances to the Bank of America constructing shouting "We got bought out." The crowd covered dozens of households dealing with foreclosure.
"The bank took over my property. Tried to evict everybody," stated Mallerrie McCoy of Dorchester. "They boarded up my windows. They modified our locks. I?m here to say i?m not going anywhere."
Antonio Ennis is going through foreclosure on his Dorchester home.
"All we?re asking for is limit the principal. It?s what?s right," Ennis said. "They acquired bailed out by using us. We want assist now. "
Some 24 protesters have been arrested taken from the building in plastic handcuffs as the crowd cheered them on.
"A crew went up and purposefully blocked the doorways and we asked them to leave," stated Police Commissioner Ed Davis. "When they said they didn?t desire to and they wanted to be arrested we obliged."
These folks choose to ignore the records and alternatively focal point on increasingly more aggressive PR stunts, Bank of America spokesman T.J.Crawford said.
Bank of America has a lot to be proud of in Massachusetts, from enhancing 18,000 mortgages considering 2008, to lending nearly $400 million to small businesses that are fueling the local economy in the first half of 2011.