Wednesday, October 12, 2011
Protesters use downtown Frederick as platform to retailer the American dream
More than 40 humans led via MoveOn rally to ship message to politicians
by Margarita Raycheva, Staff Writer


Armed with posters, slogans and umbrellas, more than 40 protesters on Wednesday gathered at the intersection of Market and Patrick streets in downtown Frederick to urge absolutely everyone who exceeded through to help retailer the American dream.
Inspired via the American Dream Movement and protest rallies that have been going on in cities throughout the country, protesters advised politicians to put quit the war, stop price range cuts and make investments cash to tackle the job disaster in order to shop the American middle class.
And no matter the wet weather, human beings of all ages held up signs, sang Woody Guthries This Land is Your Land and motivated drivers to honk in guide of their message.
I am right here to aid the American Dream Movement, stated Valerie Hartman, a Frederick resident and a teacher, who has already participated in a similar rally in Washington, D.C. Hartmans children, on the different hand, marched in the Occupy Wall Street rally in New York.
There used to be no way I was once going to omit the one in Frederick, said Hartman who carried a sign pointing out Capitalism with Compassion.
I want the hostilities to end. I desire money being spent right here in America for jobs, she said.
I dont choose anarchy and I dont choose communism, she added. I choose capitalism with compassion.
The American Dream Movement endorses 10 steps to revive the American Dream. Among other steps, the motion urges politicians to quit the war, make investments in American infrastructure, outlaw corporate tax breaks and make investments in public schooling and growing twenty first century electricity jobs.
I cant imagine any American being towards that, Hartman said.
Frederick resident Art Silverman agreed and said he took his 8-year-old son Charlie out of school simply so he could take part in the protest.
I took him out of school for a lesson in democracy, Silverman said.
We prefer to let humans recognize that the Tea Party doesnt have a monopoly on patriotism in Frederick, he added.
The Frederick protest was once one of extra than 300 occasions taking place round the u . s . a . as part of American Dream Movements Jobs Not Cuts week of action, which started out on Monday.
We are a big movement, stated Jeannette Bartelt, a 64-year-old Frederick resident and the Frederick MoveOn coordinator who organized the Frederick rally.
Founded in 1998, MoveOn is an American nonprofit modern public coverage advocacy team and political action committee. The team commenced as an e mail crew and today allows members to promote nearby civil action and arrange protests.
Though the rally was centered on national issues, Bartelt said she hopes it would be an possibility to address politicians two such as U.S. Rep. Roscoe G. Bartlett (R - Dist. 6) of Buckeystown to Frederick Board of County Commissioners President Blaine R. Young (R) and confront them about reducing jobs.
Bartelt said she was once very thrilled with the turnout at the tournament on Wednesday, mainly because the weather used to be terrible and it took place in the middle of the work week.
People are hurting, she said. This is genuinely a peoples movement.
Susan Beam, any other Frederick resident who joined the protest agreed with that. Beam, who is self-employed and used to paint homes, said the bad economic system has deprived her of the probability to take care of herself. So she stated she wants to see politicians cease investing in the battle and put cash into job creation interior the U.S.
I dont favor welfare, I simply want a job, she said. I want to support myself.
mraycheva@gazette.net
http://www.gazette.net/article/20111012/NEWS/710129301/1009/protesters-use-downtown-frederick-as-platform-to-save-the-american&template=gazette