Sexual Assault Reported at Occupy Portland Camp
Posted by Sarah Mirk on Sun, Oct 9, 2011 at 11:10 AM


The Portland police are investigating a sexual assault that allegedly occurred at the Occupy Portland camp on Friday night.
According to protester D. Jackson, after the sufferer said the assault to Occupy organizers, they compelled the suspect to depart the scene immediately. The assault used to be said to police and there are activists at the camp on hand to speak about sexual assault resourcesthey're wearing red armbands.
The protest so far has been fantastically protected and violence freethis terrible allegation in reality casts a shadow over the encampment. Amid all the friendship and excitement, preserve on your guard, everyone.
Here's the record the police sent out last night:
The Portland Police Bureau is investigating an allegation of a sexual assault that happened closing night in Chapman Square where "Occupy Portland" supporters are camping.
Last night, at 11:15 p.m., Portland Police officers assigned to Central Precinct have been flagged down at Southwest fifth and Main by using representatives from "Occupy Portland." The representatives instructed the officers that a sexual assault might also have took place inside Chapman Square. Officers discovered that a female in a tent at Chapman Square can also have been sexually assaulted but that she was now not inclined to be identified. It is no longer acknowledged at this time if the sufferer is an adult or a juvenile.
Officers labored with representatives from "Occupy Portland" during the day to discover the sufferer and to determine if a sexual assault certainly happened. At this point, the records has been documented however no sufferer has been identified and the allegation has no longer been substantiated.
The Portland Police Bureau has recommended representatives from "Occupy Portland" to display recreation at the park closely and without delay report any crook activity.
Nearly two dozen officers will continue to screen Chapman Square and the surrounding location at some stage in the weekend.
Anyone with records about this viable sexual assault is motivated to contact Sgt. Ken Whattam at (503) 823-0242
UPDATE: Writer Lauren Hudgins has this frustrating account of attempting to get greater info about the assault.
I am furious and concerned. Tonight at around 6pm, I went down to the camp to see what progress on sexual assault response had been carried out because Friday night. I inquired at Info about the sexual assault advocacy group. Info instructed me to talk to Safety (right subsequent to them). Safety advised me to speak to Info. When I complained that Info had just told me to discuss to them, they told me to speak to Medical. Medical informed me to seem for all of us in a purple armband. I had already been looking for them and hadn't observed a single one. Then anybody at Medical took down my name and records so that anyone who could answer my questions may want to get returned to me eventually. This is now not an perfect response. Every single man or woman at Info, Safety, and Medical understand how to right now contact someone in the sexual assault advocacy team. What if I had been a victim of sexual assault and wanted to discuss to someone? I would have gotten the run around. Someone ought to say that if this had been an proper case of sexual assault I would have been given extra attention. But a victim should not have to reveal to Info, Safety, and Medical (all represented by using males at that time) that s/he had been sexually assaulted in order to get entry to help. Medical reminded me that the crimson armbands had been working clearly tough and been doing awesome work. I genuinely have belief that they are. The trouble is that there is no gadget to connect with them. It does not appear to me that there has been a great deal progress when you consider that Friday night. When I complained that extra should be accomplished to make people protected and there have to be extra of a conversation about sexual assault at Occupy Portland, I used to be continuously met with the apology "Sorry, but we have been so preoccupied with the Portland Marathon."


http://www.portlandmercury.com/BlogtownPDX/archives/2011/10/09/sexual-assault-reported-at-occupy-portland-camp