6 protesters shape Occupy Cleveland
by DAVID DAVIS, Managing Editor
11 months ago | 3337 views | 0 | 7 two | |
view slideshow (3 images)



The Occupy Wall Street motion spread to Cleveland Wednesday with six humans marching from Johnston Park to the Bradley County Courthouse Plaza where they held symptoms and waved to passing motorists.
We are everywhere and we are everyone, stated Howard Hayes, of Benton. We are here in help of Occupy Wall Street in New York City to make the peoples voice heard. Many of us sense the peoples voice is no longer being heard.
Hayes alleged the Occupy movement centered on Wall Street due to the fact bankers and corporations have purchased politicians and all the rights and privileges of a human being with none of the responsibilities.
Beth Foster, of Cleveland, said a choice on how visible the neighborhood protest will be depends on conclusions made by a popular meeting of the participants. The assembly is designed so there is no hierarchy or management and everyones voice is heard.
The goal, she said, is to get cash out of politics.
We choose to own our government again, she said. The American humans no longer personal the government.
Foster said they might determine to occupy a area in Cleveland at some point in the future, however most of the locals are working with Occupy Chattanooga.
We may also be doing the genuine occupation with them, but what we favor humans to be aware of is there is a presence in Cleveland, she said.
Foster said Occupy has been in contrast to the tea birthday party motion that sprang up prior to the ultimate presidential election. The distinction is that Occupy is not a political party. It is neither left nor right, Democrat nor Republican.
Some of the political action committees affiliated with the Democratic Party have tried to go in on Occupy. The Democrats are as tons a phase of the hassle as the Republicans. This is a nonpartisan movement, she said.
Hayes said they are a very loosely formed, leaderless company protesting against corporate greed and corruption.
We assist freedom, equality, justice and liberty, he said. We are being oppressed. There have been police atrocities across the usa and we need to clearly have the freedom to bring together as we please, when we please in public areas.
Foster stated a desired outcome has no longer been established.
There is no longer necessarily an give up that has been set up yet, she said. We are going through a dialoguing method to get to that end.
Hayes has been collaborating in Occupy Chattanooga and planned to return to Chattanooga later in the nighttime to remain in a single day on the lawn at City Hall.
We are no longer going anywhere. We have the First Amendment right to bring together and it does not restriction us to any time agenda or metropolis ordinance, he said. It is our constitutional right to collect in nonviolent protest.
Hayes believes refusal of two Nashville magistrates to uphold the arrests of 29 protesters on Oct. 29, and 26 people on Oct. 30, primarily based on a curfew put in region on Oct. 28, units a legal precedent.
The Cleveland protesters are part of the Occupy movement, which began in decrease Manhattan as Occupy Wall Street to decry company impact in authorities and wealth inequality. It has spread to cities large and small across the u . s . and round the world.
Breann Murray Tolley and her husband personal Clover Wreath Farm where they grow organic merchandise in Cleveland. She is concerned about corruption and food security.
A big quantity of the federal budget goes to massive company farms that do no longer have our fitness or our environment (in mind). I would in reality like to see the cash given to small, sustainable farms so we can preserve food extra local and extra sustainable, she said.
Chad Jones, a sophomore at Cleveland State Community College, left the Navy only to locate his army education and realistic trip were disregarded, because I didnt have a piece of paper.
Matthew Deniston, of Cleveland, is a member of the Georgia National Guard who has deployed twice every to Iraq and Afghanistan. He is involved about waste and fraud in the military.
According to the Occupy Wall Street website, it is a resistance motion with human beings of many colors, genders and political persuasions. The one component we all have in common is that We Are The 99 percentage that will no longer tolerate the greed and corruption of the 1 percent. We are the usage of the innovative Arab Spring tactic to acquire our ends and encourage the use of nonviolence to maximize the safety of all participants.
who marched round the Bradley County Courthouse Sunday afternoon protesting the Equal Access to Public Property Act of 2012 authored with the aid of State Rep. Eric Watson, R-Cleveland representing the 22nd Legislative District. Members of the Occupy Movement say the bill makes homelessness a crime. Csapo stated lots of hundreds of working class families have been thrown out of their homes. He charged the foreclosures insurance policies in the United States are the extraction of wealth from the working class. There is not a leap in homeless so tons as there is a bounce in un-homed people, he explained. There are greater empty homes than there are homeless families, he said. On the right is Kenny (no ultimate name) from Occupy Washington. Banner photo, DAVID DAVIS