Handful of Occupy protesters arrested at Ron Paul headquarters two two two two two two
Mary Stegmeir two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
11:13 AM, Dec 29, 2011
Categories: Caucus Insider two two two two two two two two
Covering Ron Paul two two two two two two two two two two
two two two two two two two two two two two two
Five Occupy Des Moines members were arrested in Ankeny this morning after blockading the doors to Ron Pauls Iowa presidential headquarters, said Drew Ivers, the congressmans nation marketing campaign chairman.
A press release from the movement stated that these gathered have been protesting Pauls anti-abortion stance, as nicely as his plans to make cuts to the Department of Education and the Environmental Protection Agency.
Ivers said the Occupiers arrived at the office, a suite located at 207 NE Delaware Ave., around eight a.m. and had been dispersed inside a couple of hours.
The propertys landlord two not campaign staffers two known as police to the scene, Ivers said.
A little more than a 1/2 dozen protesters showed up in total, he added.
(The Ankeny Police) requested them to leave; they chose no longer to, Ivers said. I suppose a few have been arrested and taken away. So there was once no disturbance in terms of the whole lot continued on besides a hitch internal the office.
Campaign operations were not interrupted and the Occupiers did now not enter the office. The marketing campaign automatically keeps its doorways locked, even during commercial enterprise hours, Ivers.
They were instead mild. They didnt get violent via any means, he stated of the protesters. It didnt give up something due to the fact we standardly keep the door closed.
Paul addressed the issue this morning after WHO radios Jan Mickelson informed him all through a stay interview that his Iowa workplace was the web page of a protest. Occupy Des Moines contributors protested at former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romneys Iowa headquarters Wednesday.
I didnt even hear that yet, stated Paul, whose has had Occupy Des Moines individuals attend previous marketing campaign events. It must not have been a massive ample deal but for them to inform me.
The congressman went on to say he thinks there are components of his libertarian message that would resonate with those concerned in the Occupy movement.
They dont like the bailouts and I dont like the bailouts; so there are some matters that we can agree on, he said. I think the tea celebration movement and the Occupy motion are encouraged for exceptional reasons, however they come collectively due to the fact they dont have confidence government anymore, and thats why I think I can connect with both groups.
Paul has a full day of campaigning beforehand of him with city hall meetings planned in Perry, Atlantic and Council Bluffs.
Link: http://caucuses.desmoinesregister.com/2011/12/29/a-handful-of-occupy-protesters-arrested-at-ron-paul-headquarters/