Occupy Trenton protest draws small, however committed group two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Published: Tuesday, October 11, 2011, 9:00 PM two two two
Updated: Friday, October 14, 2011, 3:19 PM
By Megan DeMarco/Statehouse Bureau two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Andrew Mills/The Star-Ledger


Less than a dozen protesters man the camp at Occupy Trenton, a tons smaller off-shoot of Occupy Wall Street, which set up store at the New Jersey World War II Memorial, immediately across the road from the Statehouse.
TRENTON two Hand sanitizer, toothpaste and a few rolls of rest room paper on a card desk make up the scientific station.
The media and tech stand consists of a flip cam and a few old computer systems plugged into a energy strip.
The meals station gives bottled water, snacks and fruit.
There are no marches, no chants, and no police presence at Occupy Trenton, a small but resolute offshoot of the anti-Wall Street protests that started remaining month in New York.
They may also have fewer sources and a fraction of the manpower in contrast to the protest in Manhattans Zuccoti Park, however the Trenton occupiers say they are simply as passionate and committed for the long haul.
"This is the area to be. If have been going to get anybodys attention, across from the Statehouse would be the place," said Maureen Rose-Ice, 49, of Jackson. "The long-term purpose is to be recounted through the human beings who are in control."
The two dozen protesters at the states World War II Memorial have grievances for Trenton Mayor Tony Mack and President Obama two and lots of humans in between. Some are upset about cuts to the Trenton police force. Others feel country price range cuts have harmed education. And they share the anger expressed at other camps over authorities bailouts on Wall Street.
Charlene Dow Edwards, a Trenton resident who held a signal studying "108 Trenton cops are gone. Join us," stated price range cuts at the kingdom and neighborhood stage inspired her to protest.
"We need to be right here each and every day all day to confront them," she said, referring to state officials. "They can experience a little uncomfortable going to work each day. Because its actually uncomfortable out here."
Since the Occupy Wall Street protests set up shop, heaps of smaller occupations have cropped up throughout the nation. The motion includes extra than 1,300 groups, in accordance to the Occupy Together website.
Beth Leech, a political science professor at Rutgers University, said the growth of Occupy Wall Street mirrors the civil rights movement, which unfold from the Southern Leadership Council to copycat sit-ins and protests across the nation. "Youll see replication of whats came about in one location occur in another," Leech said. "These are people who are upset for a range of reasons. Theyre coming out to express their frustration relatively organically."


Video: Small however committed crew occupies Trenton In one of the many offshoots of the Occupy Wall Street protests, Trenton's War World II Memorial has been occupied by way of locals who say they don't seem to be going anywhere until reforms are enacted.
(Megan DeMarco/The Star-Ledger)


The protesters set up camp in Trenton on Thursday, complete with drowsing bags, symptoms bemoaning company greed and particular areas: "administration," "art," "comfort" and "sanitation." About a dozen slept at the memorial Monday night, and extra have shown up every day. The protesters are assured their movement will grow.
On Monday afternoon, about 20 humans stood close to the side of West State Street, across from the Statehouse, and waved symptoms reading "Honk for peace, equality and reform," "99 percentage desire our us of a back," and "Save the American dream." One out of each and every few drivers honked in support, drawing cheers from the occupiers, who ranged in age from 17 to 63.
Edward Anthony Salter, 29, who helped arrange the occupation, said State Police and the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, which oversees the World War II memorial, have been cooperative and friendly. Though arrests have marked protests in New York and Boston, there has been no tension in Trenton.
"Were all section of the ninety nine percent," Salter said.


http://www.nj.com/news/index.ssf/2011/10/small_but_dedicated_group_make.html