thirteen of forty four DOCUMENTS
Austin American-Statesman (Texas)
October 20, 2011 Thursday two
Final Edition
Social media helps social motion grow
BYLINE: Andrea Ball AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF
SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01
LENGTH: 1648 words


The show: Occupy Austin
The scene: Early night on a latest weekday at Austin City Hall
The cast: More than a hundred and fifty university kids, business owners, teachers, homeless people, waiters and so on
The plot: Motley crew of protesters tries to run a meeting. Chaos ensues.
Bonus plot: The whole element unfolds on social media
Nobody said jogging an occupation used to be easy. From the gay rights motion to the Vietnam War protests, the messy challenge of making an attempt to change the world has been well-documented in books, movies, scholarly papers and tutorial research.
But these days, human beings don't have to wait for the postgame commentary. Thanks to social media, they can watch each detail of the Wall Street protests unfold for themselves. Occupy Austin is, in a way, a truth exhibit produced via Facebook, Twitter, Livestream, blogs, Google agencies and email. And what viewers are seeing stages from excessive drama and fierce divisions to difficult work and unexpected kindness.
Whether Occupy protests go increase or bust, one component is clear: Trying to pull off a social motion is a complicated, time-consuming, often-frustrating business.
"It's a remarkable process," stated Sylvia Benini , one of Occupy Austin's organizers. "It's like the delivery of a child. It has to grow."
Episode 1: Coming together
The scene: Late morning on a weekday at a small warehouse in East Austin
The cast: About a dozen volunteers, ranging in age from young adults to middle-aged
The plot: Protesters collect at headquarters to eat, sleep and deal with logistical issues.
Base camp for Occupy Austin is a borrowed constructing cluttered with tools, tents, battered furniture, historical computer monitors, bedding and more. A makeshift kitchen homes a sink, a counter and a mini-refrigerator. A small room at the the front of the warehouse serves as the computer center, and every other shops meals donations.
"We've spent $50 on food," said volunteer Chris Nielsen , a 32-year-old Austin man who owns a golf cart taxi company. "Whatever we need, we simply put it out on Twitter or Facebook, and it simply appears."
Occupy Austin is one of lots of spinoffs from Occupy Wall Street, an ongoing protest in New York City that opposes, among different things, company money in politics and the growing wealth gap. Since the New York rallies started out Sept. 17, protests have unfold to more than 1,500 cities throughout the kingdom and world, consisting of Paris and Rome .
Protesters bitch about extraordinary things, but their core belief is usually the same: Government favors the wealthy and oppresses the middle category and poor.
"It's always the little man that gets stepped on," Nielsen said.
The Austin movement started to gel Sept. 29 , when about 500 people flocked to the coffeehouse Ruta Maya on South Congress Avenue to talk about the protests. Volunteers spent the subsequent week planning an Oct. 6 rally at City Hall. Work groups, or "magnets," tackled city ordinances, food, prison advice, labor union outreach and other details.
There had been no legit leaders, no president, no board of directors. Proposals got here from the magnets and were voted on at the twice-daily popular assemblies.
That first protest drew extra than 1,000 people. But given that then, Occupy Austin's public face has appeared a little ragged. During the day at City Hall - where protesters have set up a 24/7 occupation - signs commonly outnumber people.
But a nearer look at the movement shows more. About 100 people generally exhibit up for commonplace assemblies. More than 1,000 human beings participated Saturday in a march to Chase Bank.
Occupy Austin's website, which the U.S. Library of Congress has determined to archive with its Internet materials on public policy topics, has gotten more than 1.1 million hits.
Its Facebook page has greater than 14,000 followers. It is developing an on-line radio station.
And in contrast to many other groups, inclusive of Occupy Wall Street itself, Occupy Austin has a concrete listing of demands for the government, such as limits on company contributions to political campaigns and tax reform so "corporations and the rich pay their honest share in taxes."
"This aspect is coming together," said Occupy Austin member Peter Morales , a prevalent contractor collaborating in the protest. "It's evolving each and every day."
Episode 2
Nuts and bolts
The scene: The widely wide-spread meeting on a latest weeknight at Austin City Hall
The cast: Harried facilitator, irritated poet, sacred prayer lady, extra than a hundred protesters
The plot: Calm assembly rapidly spins out of control
The mild was once fading, however tempers were rising.
A meeting that had begun with a rational dialogue about future activities morphed into an argument over police oppression.
An angry poet grabbed the microphone to vent. A lady stood up to sing a sacred prayer. A competing team crooned a specific song. The meeting facilitator succumbed to the chaos.
"I think that this meeting cannot be facilitated," she said, her voice trailing off.
You didn't have to be there to see it. The complete issue was once broadcast on Livestream.com.
Every day, twice a day, Occupy Austin protesters meet on the plaza to discuss their plans for the movement. Until recently, the assemblies had a loose shape that left the agenda to be decided by means of the group, and that wasn't working, Benini said.
That night, organizers regrouped, switching up the meeting structure to committee updates, bulletins and an open discussion board that takes area in smaller agencies besides a microphone. Since then, conferences have been more constructive, but they are infrequently conflict-free.
"You suck!" one man screamed at a speaker ultimate week. "Shut up! I am your non-public heckler!"
Similar divisions have erupted online. In one recent incident on the Occupyaustin.org forums, any one posted an indignant change between two people. The web page moderator deleted it, producing fierce criticism.
"That thread now not have been deleted!!" one person wrote. "I just posted on it and we had been all voicing our opinions and in no way should it have been deleted. THAT IS GOING TO DIVIDE US!!!"
Censorship has been a recurring theme of complaints. Critics charge that Facebook posts questioning the motion normally disappear.
Anton Montoya, who works for a nearby e-commerce commercial enterprise and is a member of Occupy Austin's Web team, said organizers are now not deleting whatever off Facebook and missing posts have possibly been removed by using the junk mail filter.
Moderators are, however, deleting posts off Occupy austin.org that the Web crew deems hate speech or private attacks.
"We will no longer enable that on the pages we are responsible for," Benini said. "That is known as being responsible to our community."
Austin isn't the solely location to face such conflicts. Earlier this week, news stories precise arguments inside Occupy Wall Street in New York over issues such as diversity and strategy. And though matters have improved, Occupy Houston's early demonstrations had been frozen when participants argued so a lot that they couldn't figure out the place to march, stated member Joshua Pineda, 25, a Houston resident who lately joined the Austin effort.
"The inexperience used to be big amongst our ranks," he said.
All of this, specialists say, is usual of social movements. Friction is herbal when making an attempt to organize massive companies of people, all of whom have their personal perspectives and agendas.
The penalties of that friction vary, stated Amin Ghaziani , an assistant professor in the sociology department of the University of British Columbia.
It can harm recruitment or spur the advent of splinter groups, he said. It additionally leaves the movement inclined to a "divide and conquer" method via critics and the media who may are seeking for to dilute the group's message, he said.
Series finale
or renewal?
But it is now not all bad news.
"On the other hand, businesses that are subjected to extreme scrutiny and negative publicity often band together very tightly, clarify their message, and cease up with a unit that is sincerely extra cohesive because of the interest others pay to its internal disputes," Ghaziani said.
The range of opinions inside the group has additionally delivered a range of resources, like business owners offering free food, welders building makeshift showers backyard base camp and attorneys presenting free felony advice. Many of the occupiers have developed strong friendships cultivated through working collectively 12 to 14 hours a day.
"I see human beings developing and respecting every different extra and more," said Ellis McClane , a 19-year-old on-line e book seller. "It's a stunning thing."
And so, for now, Occupy Austin is nonetheless writing new episodes for itself.
Whether the movement can continue to cross ahead is an open question. But Occupiers are not going anywhere, said Tom Friedley, a 53-year-old radio broadcaster volunteering for the effort.
"Right now, we're simply going through growing pains," he said. "If this was once easy, human beings would have accomplished it by now."
aball@statesman.com; 912-2506
New York
The international motion started out here Sept. 17, when thousands of humans protested in opposition to Wall Street earnings in two Manhattan . About 150 people stayed overnight in Zuccotti Park, a privately owned public area near Wall Street. Protesters have considering the fact that backed two rallies and marches addressing monetary inequity and other issues. More than 700 have been arrested as of Oct. 15.
Washington
Occupy D.C. started out Oct. 1 in McPherson Square, about two blocks from the White House. Some individuals clashed with police Oct. 8, which precipitated the closure of the National Air and Space Museum. Occupy organizers said they've scaled back every day protests and have begun to preserve 'teach-ins' on authorities corruption and money in politics.
Seattle
On the West Coast, Seattle protesters have occupied Westlake Park and City Hall Plaza seeing that late September; thousands have been routed and eight have been arrested in the metropolis Monday after defying the city's ban on tents in public parks. At least 3,000 human beings marched Saturday two to Pike Place Market, the place 200 sat down on First Avenue and blocked site visitors for about 10 minutes. Other Occupy protests




LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 The Austin American-Statesman
All Rights Reserved