Gainesville residents occupy Bo Diddley
Posted: Thursday, October 13, 2011 12:29 am
Benjamin S. Brasch, Alligator Contributing Writer | zero comments
two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two
Gainesville is officially occupied.
Occupy Gainesville commenced its occupation of the town Wednesday at 8 a.m. at the Bo Diddley Community Plaza.
Protesters peacefully marched to Wells Fargo and Bank of America to persuade humans to close their financial institution accounts and teach them about banking in America.
After 20 years, Coral MacDonald, 47, closed his account with Bank of America.
"In the remaining six months, I've been feeling my terrible relationship with Bank of America," he said.
MacDonald said financial institution officials would not enable him to enter the bank preserving his flag, which examine "occupy or live a lie." He gave it to every other protester and walked in to close his account.
He stated he has been planning on closing his financial institution account when you consider that he noticed the accelerated debit card charges six months ago.
He walked out, cut his then-unusable card in the front of his ancient financial institution and threw it away.
MacDonald stated he has moved his money from Bank of America to a credit score union and is attempting to encourage his 18-year-old daughter to do the same.
Juan Diaz, 47, became in his resignation letter to the country government 4 weeks ago and formally resigned Wednesday after 22 years as an engineer.
"I trust professionalism and corporatism are corrupted at each level," he said.
He would not say which government organization employed him.
Contractors who worked with his state government agency, he said, went in opposition to regulations, specs and standards of the government.
The kingdom gave $200,000 to a contractor who did not deserve the cash on a task Diaz was once working on, he said.
"The shift I have considered seeing that a year in the past is about cutting the groups and shift the cash and resources to the personal zone with the aid of mandate of Rick Scott," he said.
Diaz stated he did not choose to cease initially.
"My integrity used to be continuously being pinched, and I couldn't stand it anymore," he said.
Diaz said he heard about Occupy Gainesville over the Internet.
Another protester, Eddy Arenas, 32, said he located about the Occupy Wall Street movement from movies on the Internet.
"We have a private responsibility," he said. "We can't simply preserve pointing fingers at the ruling elite ... we put ourselves in this position."
Arenas said he understands the Gainesville Police Department has metropolis ordinances to observe when the time comes, and he appreciates how cooperative the GPD has been.
"The most necessary thing we are getting from this is the connections we've got made from so many terrific people who care about fixing the troubles that have an effect on this world," he said.
UF college students are becoming a member of the occupation movement throughout all university campuses.
Skye Schmelzer, sophomore psychology major, equipped Occupy UF along with two different students.
Schmelzer additionally got UF protected in the Occupy Florida Colleges coalition.
"People are pissed off and they are taking a stand," she said.
At time of publication, Occupy Gainesville had a permit that allowed protesters to remain overnight at the plaza Wednesday night.
Occupy Gainesville's standard assembly determined to fulfill the permit, stated Maya Garner, a protester.
Since the time-honored meeting fulfilled the permit, it has forfeited its ability to reapply and obtain a longer permit, she said.
"The prevalent assembly will decide the next day nighttime if they will remain Thursday night," Garner said. "If they determine to remain in the park the following day night, it will be in civil disobedience."
Occupy UF will have its first assembly at 5 p.m. Thursday at Turlington Plaza to organize.
Link: http://www.alligator.org/news/local/article_4647ea56-f554-11e0-95c9-001cc4c03286.html