City barricades fountain to forestall damage from Occupy L.A. protesters
Staff and Wire Services
Posted: two two 11/01/2011 01:41:43 PM PDT
Updated: 11/01/2011 02:47:57 PM PDT
Officials have surrounded a fountain with plywood outside City Hall to guard it from any doable damage as a end result of the Occupy L.A. protest. As viewed Tuesday, Nov. 1, 2011, the plywood wall has already attracted its share of graffiti. (Dakota Smith/Los Angeles Daily News)


LOS ANGELES -- The metropolis Department of General Services barricaded a fountain and a memorial sculpture in the front of City Hall to protect them from damage with the aid of humans camped on the lawn for Occupy L.A., which turns one month old today.
The Frank Putnam Flint Fountain was once constructed in 1933 in honor of the senator's efforts to deliver water to Los Angeles. A firefighters' memorial on the southwest nook of the City Hall garden used to be constructed in 1944 to honor fire personnel killed in the line of duty.
The buildings had sustained some non-permanent graffiti, mayoral spokesman Peter Sanders said. At least one protester had been noticed periodically sitting on top of the fountain, and protesters had additionally hung a movie screen from the fountain to assignment videos.
Construction of a nearly 20-foot-high timber structure began about four this morning, demonstrators said, and took about six hours to complete.
City officers told the campers they had been free to use the structure as a canvas for artwork work, stated Keaton Yale, who joined Occupy L.A. a few days ago, and a number of people immediately commenced spray-painting it with graffiti-style writings and graphics.
Someone sprayed a large, colourful "Power to the People" on the west side of the structure surrounding the fountain.
Yale described the markings as less than attractive.
"It's all art, however it's now not always desirable art," Yale said, including that he hoped attendees at the movement's universal assembly meeting tonight would take up the trouble of selecting an artist to paint something "beautiful" on the structure. He said he was once concerned the graffiti would upset humans riding round City Hall and discredit the Occupy movement.
"There's a lot of exact here, however there is some humans here that don't know why they're here," Yale said. "If stuff gets too crazy, I'm likely going to discover a better organized thing."
Occupy L.A. started Oct. 1 when protesters set up about 40 tents on the north aspect of City Hall in team spirit with Occupy Wall Street. The demonstrations, which have spread nationwide, have sought to highlight what protesters name a widening gap between rich and poor.
Occupy L.A. has in view that grown about tenfold. Los Angeles police this morning counted about 475 tents on the 1.7-acre metropolis park surrounding City Hall.
The much-smaller Occupy San Fernando Valley movement, which commenced on Saturday, continues in the courtyard of Van Nuys Civic Center. But unlike the downtown version, the Valley protesters are forbidden to camp in a single day at the site.
About 8-10 people exhibit up every day at the Van Nuys Civic Center, said LAPD Captain Tia Morris. The crew leaves via 7 p.m. "Then they go to Van Nuys Boulevard and wave their signs and march," stated Morris.