Occupy demonstrators to be launched on bond
Posted: Nov 22, 2011 11:27 PM PST
Updated: Nov 23, 2011 11:13 AM PST
By Live 5 News Web Staff - email

CHARLESTON, SC (WCSC) -
Nine protesters who had been arrested following an Occupy Charleston demonstration Tuesday night are set to be launched on Wednesday on a private recognizance bond.
Another protester who used to be arrested at the demonstration is being held due to two lively bench warrants.
A decide also gave a circumstance in the protesters' bond that states that they can't go again to protest at Marion Square until the case is resolved.


Charleston City Police arrested 10 humans just after middle of the night Wednesday at Marion Square in downtown Charleston.
About 30 protesters of the Occupy Charleston motion stood their ground at Marion Square, voicing their issues with company America and the American economy. About forty to 50 police officers watched on.
Justin Robert Honea was once charged with prohibited endeavor in a public park. Nine different human beings have been arrested on trespassing charges. Their names are below.
Protesters have been instructed through Mayor Joe Riley on Monday that they were now not allowed to occupy Marion Square after the park closed at eleven p.m. Riley told the protesters they may want to stay in the park for seven days and solely at some point of daylight hours hours, however the protesters weren't happy.
Occupiers took to the streets Tuesday night time in a last-ditch effort, to raise cognizance about social and financial inequality, turning a peaceable park into a stressed one.
According to a spokesperson for the City of Charleston, protesters for Occupy Charleston addressed the town council Tuesday throughout a 30-minute open discussion board to the public. Supposedly, nothing came out of that meeting.
The occupy motion has cost nearby taxpayers nationwide at least $13 million on the grounds that the protests began, in accordance to an related press survey. The survey seemed at facts from government agencies in 18 cities with lively protests thru Nov. 15. Most of the costs come from law enforcement desiring to screen marches and evict protesters.
Copyright WCSC 2011. All rights reserved.