Occupy Nashville: the Little Encampment That Could
POSTED BY JEFF WOODS ON WED, NOV 30, 2011 AT 1:37 PM


P olice in Los Angeles and Philadelphia evicted Occupy Wall Street protesters ultimate night, shutting down two of the longest-lasting remaining encampments. So with many leaders announcing its about time to come in from the bloodless anyway, the motion is declaring victory, debating new systems and reorganizing indoors all over the countrybut now not Nashville.
Here, protesters are hunkering down for the holidays. When the governor and first lady switched on the lights on the Capitols Christmas tree this week, there they had been like Santas merry elves milling about on the Legislative Plaza in the seventh week of their occupation.
Protesters sense so at home they've been flying kites and rectangular dancing. As Pithster Steve Haruch posts below, Occupy Nashville now is drawing country wide interest as a man-bites-dog oddity.
I sense like in a lot of ways Nashville is beginning to become possibly a bit of a soft spot or a hearthstone for different occupiers, one demonstrator, Samantha Blanchard, informed MSNBC. Were like the little heartbeat, the little southern hospitality of the movement.
To paraphrase our favourite aide to the governor, Thaddeus E. Watkins III: Fun times!
For this, Occupy Nashville can thank Gov. Bill Haslam. His ham-handed try to clear the plaza boomeranged. At the start, Occupy Nashville used to be a few crust punks and historical hippies. Now, protesters declare a core crew of nearly 100, with maybe 400 part-time supporters, and theres a federal court injunction protecting the encampmentat least until sometime next year.
If Haslam had solely waited and thinking matters via a bit, the public response may have been more to his liking. Since his blunder, police in different cities have taken aback the nation by wantonly pepper-spraying protesters. By comparison, Tennessees troopers have been teddy bears. Some of those zip-ties went on too tight, but thats about as brutal as it got. Still, Haslam came throughout as a mean-spirited dolt. If he moved in today with the same exhibit of force, the media might hail him as a humanitarian. In politics, remember, timing is everything.