by means of Jenny Suniga
Posted: 10.14.2011 at 8:09 PM


FLINT -- The Occupy Together movement that started out on Wall Street continues to sweep cities throughout the nation. On Friday the grass roots effort moved to Flint.
Hundreds of humans descended on downtown Flint for the event that started around 12:00p.m. on the corner of Saginaw and First Streets.
The group was protesting a wide variety of matters from political corruption and company greed to the lack of jobs in the area.
People chanted we favor trade over and over whilst they carried signs with messages of disenchantment they felt with America.
"People are struggling to pay their bills and they hold elevating our bills," said Flint resident Stan Downes.
"People have to make a living. They have to have houses. They have to have some security, stated Swartz Creek resident John Apperson.
The Flint protest is section of a nationwide motion referred to as Occupy Together. It started in mid-September on Wall Street and is now sweeping cities throughout the nation. two The purpose of the protests is a little vague. The Washington Post is calling it a leaderless movement barring an professional set of demands. Whatever the case may be, one thing is clear, these humans are fed up with the countrys country of affairs.


"I see too many people that are homeless, losing their jobs or residences and it mustn't be that way, " said Clio resident Juanita Coleman.
"We are supposed to be the richest country, so prove it and assist the poor, said Downes.
"I think it's about time that American's stood up for their rights and make the corporate world guilty for they do mainly to human beings lives," said Flushing resident Pam Bakken.
Flint is now one of extra than 200 cities becoming a member of the "Occupy Together" movement over the last weeks.
State and U.S. leaders have referenced the protests however whether the demonstrations will make a distinction remains but to be seen.
"I suppose we have elected people to take care of these matters and they have to have some thoughts and get them through. They need to work together, said Coleman.
"I hope it makes a difference. I definitely do. What other preference do we have right now?" stated Downes.