Occupy Freedom Plaza Rolls Into Second Day
7:07 PM, Oct 7, 2011 two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two | two two two two two two two two two two



WASHINGTON, DC (WUSA) -- This town has seen lots of protests a long way larger than the Occupy anti-war and "anti-corporate greed" protests.
But one difference is these demonstrators format to camp on Freedom Plaza on Pennsylvania Avenue day and night time -- a bit like the Bonus Army in the depths of the depression.
And they say they're staying till the united states begins changing for the better.
Waving flags and carrying a giant banner with the preamble to the Constitution, thousands of protestors left Freedom Plaza to march across the National Mall. "I'm right here to protest all the violence in the world. And due to the fact my time in Vietnam, it just in no way stops," said a vet who would solely provide his identify as Jim.
This is the first protest for some of them. "I was a clinical transcriptionist for thirty years," says Tina Strobel, an unemployed worker from Kansas City. "So what are you doing now?" I asked her. "This!" she replied, wading into the march.
Some are promising civil disobedience. A few invaded the Washington places of work of drone maker General Atomic. But there have been no arrests -- the police are going out of their way to escort the marches.
Even some of the human beings caught in visitors are supportive. "Free speech, right?" "It's great." "Help people."
Activists who've struggled for a long time to create a left wing populist movement say they've in no way been so excited. "People are out of their chairs, off the sofas, in the streets, organizing around principals. Not behind candidates," stated David Swanson of October2011.org.
Even failed presidential candidate Ralph Nader is impressed. "It's very tough to marginalize the 99% of the humans who assume the corporate state and the company electricity system is unfair."
The protestors appear to have a million one-of-a-kind agendas. The symptoms include "Stop The Pipeline," "End The War," and "Human Need, Not Corporate Greed."
Ben Bernanke at the Federal Reserve... and President Obama at the White House... have both talked about the Occupy demonstrators in the remaining few days. And the mainstream media has probable now not paid as much interest to leftist activists in decades. Organizers are satisfied they're having an impact.
Written & Reported through Bruce Leshan
9News Now & wusa9.com
http://www.wusa9.com/news/article/170204/373/Occupy-Freedom-Plaza-Rolls-Into-Second-Day