13 of 14 DOCUMENTS
Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)
October 25, 2011 Tuesday
Arresting peaceable protesters is a disgrace
BYLINE: The Lowell Sun
SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Editorials
LENGTH: 264 words

Has all and sundry noticed if Boston Mayor Thomas Menino has been sporting a purple coat lately? Menino supported the arrests of 141 Occupy Boston protesters for reportedly harming some grass on the Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy Greenway. He quipped that "civil disobedience will no longer be tolerated." Sounds like Menino would simply have sided with the British Loyalists if he lived at some stage in the time of the American Revolution.
Could any individual please exhibit Mayor Menino Article VII of the Massachusetts Constitution? It states:
"Government is instituted for the common good; for the protection, safety, prosperity and happiness of the people; and no longer for the profit, honor, or personal interest of any one man, family, or class of men: Therefore the humans on my own have an incontestable, unalienable, and indefeasible proper to institute government; and to reform, alter, or completely alternate the same, when their protection, safety, prosperity and happiness require it."
In New Hampshire's Constitution, Article 10 is titled "Right of Revolution." The article is similar to Massachusetts Article VII. However, in N.H., revolution is no longer only a proper of the people, however a responsibility of the people to reform authorities when necessary. The N.H. Constitution states: "The doctrine of nonresistance towards arbitrary power, and oppression, is absurd, slavish, and damaging of the appropriate and happiness of mankind."
Mayor Menino wishes to make a public apology to the human beings for his treasonous words. Arresting peaceful protesters in Boston -- the birthplace of the American Revolution -- is disgraceful.
JOHN MEINHOLD
Portsmouth, N.H.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
GRAPHIC:
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
All Rights Reserved