City Cuts Off Power At Occupy Baltimore Site
Members Have Been Camped Out For About 1 Month
UPDATED 8:52 AM EDT Nov 03, 2011


BALTIMORE -
City officials stated they reduce off energy to the part of McKeldin Square the place contributors of Occupy Baltimore have been camping out for a month.
11 News discovered the measure took effect at 5 p.m. Wednesday.
Ian Brennan, a spokesman for the mayor's office, told WBAL-TV that the city took the step to alleviate a public safety hazard. He said a town authentic visited the downtown place this week and located fire and electricity hazards because of extension cords rigged up around the tent city.
Brennan stated the outlets had been established so authorised businesses could use electricity. He said Occupy Baltimore contributors didn't have a permit, so their TVs, hotplates and espresso pots are now no longer working.
"It makes it more difficult to make coffee, however it's now not going to gradual us down or give up us," said protester Damien Nicholas.
Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake had expressed challenge about reports of illegal recreation at the park. A girl reported Friday that $1,800 was once taken from her, and she also claimed she had been assaulted.
"They're free to protest with their signs, voices, track and dance all day long, however this isn't a dialog about greed and Wall Street -- this is about a campout," stated the mayor, who wants the campout to end. "I do not assume there may be any park -- town or country wide -- in the usa that allows for perpetual campouts."
Last week, 11 News reporter Lowell Melser uploaded a photograph of Occupy Baltimore contributors playing video games at the location.
Negotiations between the metropolis and the protesters are nonexistent due to the fact the crew has now not recognized a leader or any collective goals, 11 News reporter Kerry Cavanaugh said. Protesters stated they're denouncing issues ranging from company greed to campaign finance reform.


BALTIMORE -
"Generally, just trying to teach the public and keep the dialog alive. If there is a large disconnect between the people and the government, I can't help however think that the thoughts of our founding fathers are being slowly ripped away from us," said protester Jason O'Neal.
The protesters are vowing to continue their vigil while they discover other avenues to power computers, charge cellphones and make the espresso that maintains them warm.
Group members were advised last week that solely two humans ought to camp out in a single day at the web page and act as "watchmen." City leaders stated at the time that they revered the free speech rights of the contributors but said McKeldin Square wasn't a campground.
The crew utilized for a permit for 25 to 300 humans remaining month to specific cohesion with Occupy Wall Street, a demonstration in New York City against corporate influence, according to Department of Recreation and Parks spokeswoman Gwendolyn Burrell Chambers.
Group members have been at the website for the reason that Oct. 4.
Organizers initially stated the protest didn?t have any one specific ideology. Instead, they hoped it was an possibility for humans to come collectively and speak about ways to address nearby concerns.
Stay with WBALTV.com and WBAL-TV 11 News for updates.


Link: http://www.wbaltv.com/City-Cuts-Off-Power-At-Occupy-Baltimore-Site/-/9380084/8903918/-/rn5cn4z/-/index.html#ixzz24EtNAj31