Dismay, hard emotions after confrontation
City leaders shield cops for Occupy Albany actions, but protesters say have confidence is gone
By JORDAN CARLEO-EVANGELIST, Staff writer
Updated 10:42 pm, Friday, December 23, 2011


ALBANY two On the matted, lifeless grass of Academy Park where the active Occupy Albany camp held court for eight weeks two only disappointment reigned Friday.
Disappointment by protesters still furious over what they say was once immoderate pressure wielded a day earlier through a police department whose leader, Chief Steven Krokoff, they had earlier seen as their principled protector.
And disappointment by using Krokoff and different pinnacle metropolis officials, who criticized the lack of respect proven by demonstrators and lamented having being drawn into the precise sort of physical hostilities with the protesters they had sought for two months to avoid.
Krokoff and Mayor Jerry Jennings stridently backed the moves of their officers in the weird tug of battle Thursday over the encampment's final ultimate tent two a scrum that ended with three officers injured and numerous individuals of the crowd, which includes a town councilman, reeling from pepper spray used via one set up officer.
"Use of that pepper spray most surely averted serious accidents two now not only to the police officers however to the different human beings that were in that camp," Krokoff said Friday morning, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with Mayor Jerry Jennings. "I'm proud of every and every member of my police branch two as proud as I've ever been of them for the work that they've done. ...the abuse that they took."
Richard Gorleski, the officer who used the pepper spray, later proven Krokoff's account of the incident, saying he reacted solely after protesters reached for the reins and bridle of his horse.
"If I didn't spray a few of those people, anybody would have been severely injured," stated Gorleski, who is additionally president of the Albany Police Officers Union. He stated officers beneath him were being rushed with the aid of protesters attempting to maintain police from restraining these clinging to the tent.
Some protesters, however, disputed that account.
Jennings, meanwhile, contrasted the city's decision to send crews of workers into Academy Park to dismantle the two-month-old encampment after its permit expired Thursday with methods used elsewhere.
"I did not go in the center of the night time like they did in different cities," he said. "They did exhibit restraint."
Krokoff's refusal to arrest the protesters after the camp first took root Oct. 21 paired with District Attorney David Soares ' refusal to prosecute them two solely boosted the chief's credibility amongst progressives who backed his candidacy for the job ultimate year. That he was once at the core of its unraveling served as a bizarre coda to the Occupy Albany encampment.
"I no longer have confidence Krokoff," declared Councilman Anton Konev, a one-time supporter of the chief.
Konev has called for hearings to check out the use of force and stated the usage of some of the city's new beat officers to dismantle the camp may also have severely damaged newly cast relationships with the community.
Councilman Dominick Calsalaro, who said he was grazed by way of the mist of pepper spray, additionally criticized the decision to capture the tent but laid the blame with Jennings, no longer Krokoff, who he stated was once probable simply following orders.
"It was totally in opposition to the whole community policing philosophy, and they've destroyed relationships that they've had with the people," Calsolaro said. "Nobody disrespected the police till they got here in to take that tent."
City people first entered the camp round 2 p.m. Thursday after officers gained a court order barring the occupiers from continuing to spend nights there.
But the violence did not flare till some three hours later, after the protesters uprooted their ultimate tent and carried it around the town thru rush-hour traffic, then returned it to the park across Washington Avenue from the state Capitol.
Protesters maintained they had no plans to leave it there. Minutes later, however, about 30 police officers under orders from Krokoff moved in to capture it to forestall them from heading again into the streets.
Mark Mishler an legal professional working with the protesters, referred to as that the day's most fateful decision, pronouncing that if the protesters had been going to resist, they would have completed so hours until now when they linked hands and surrounded the tent before taking to the streets.
"The crew had already really made a choice that they weren't going to fight to preserve it in the park," Mishler said.
The hand-to-hand hostilities that ensued two including the use of the pepper spray used to be captured on severa video recordings. Police first said solely two protesters had been sprayed, however Krokoff later recounted more may additionally have been hit.
Four humans had been arrested, and three police officers suffered minor injuries, Krokoff said, such as one who was once hospitalized in a single day for problems ensuing from a back injury.
Soares stated his workplace will overview video of the skirmish to figure out whether or not to prosecute these arrested. In a statement, he known as the war a "black eye" for the city. But Jennings put the blame squarely on the protesters.
"I expected cooperation. We didn't get it," Jennings said, reiterating that the occupiers are free to return to the park, so lengthy as they leave their tenting gear behind. "We're no longer going to enable it. We'll take 'em down again."
Reach Jordan Carleo-Evangelist at 454-5445 or jcarleo-evangelist@timesunion.com. On Twitter: @JCEvangelist_TU.


Read more: http://www.timesunion.com/local/article/Dismay-hard-feelings-after-confrontation-2421993.php#ixzz2VDHRLzDz