5 of 36 DOCUMENTS
The Associated Press
December 10, 2011 Saturday 08:43 AM GMT
NY, California hitting up millionaires, again
BYLINE: By MICHAEL GORMLEY, Associated Press
SECTION: BUSINESS NEWS
LENGTH: 941 words
DATELINE: ALBANY, N.Y.

Hollywood moguls and Manhattan inventory brokers are dealing with a slap via the Occupy Wall Street movement as California and New York again target high-wage earners to address a endured fiscal crisis in the states.
On Wednesday, with the urging of Gov. Andrew Cuomo, New York raised its top tax fee on single filers making $1 million and joint filers making $2 million, a fee just slightly below the 2008 income tax surcharge that expires Dec. 31.
Earlier this month in California, Gov. Jerry Brown stated he, too, wishes to keep away from further cuts to education and social services with the aid of proposing a ballot initiative asking voters to enlarge taxes. That should hit Californians making over $250,000.
"Occupy became the political dialog on its head," said Richard Brodsky, a senior fellow at the Wagner School at New York University. "Time was austerity and tax cuts had been the only ideal region to be. Now, profits inequality and the 99 percent dominate practical politics. OWS paved the way; Cuomo and Brown seized the moment."
There's no evidence of a country wide groundswell after extra than a dozen states tapped their well-heeled residents for temporary earnings tax hikes from 2006-2009. But whilst most of these states let their temporary tax will increase lapse as scheduled, New York and California this month went lower back to the well.
Despite the political rhetoric, there's much less need in either kingdom to act to make their tax brackets more fair. California and New York already have extra progressive systems than most states, according to the nonpartisan Tax Foundation primarily based in Washington, D.C.
"California and New York are traditionally now not going to be the most fiscally conservative states," stated Mark Robyn, an economist with the Tax Foundation. "To say they replicate the general country's attitude to taxing the rich at a disproportionate rate, that may be tenuous."
California and New York are also among solely four states, with Washington and Missouri, to show deficits in a midyear survey by the National Conference of Legislatures, said the group's Mandy Rafool.
California faces a $3.7 billion shortfall for the contemporary fiscal 12 months and projected $12.8 billion deficit in 2013. New York learned of an unexpected $350 million deficit this year, and a greater projected deficit for the 2012-13 fiscal 12 months of $3.5 billion.
But Rafool stated there may be no inkling extra states will comply with California and New York, though tax revenues are developing only slowly in most states.
"It's an election 12 months and we're seeing that revenues are recovering, spending is stable," Rafool said. "This is higher than in the remaining 4 years. It's nevertheless not good, but it is better."
She stated she'd be amazed if other states follow New York and California.
Instead, the frequent thread is that every state's budget are worse than most other states, and their Democratic management has felt pressure from the Occupy Wall Street movement and other progressives.
In New York, an Occupy Albany motion has camped backyard the Capitol all fall. At first, Cuomo, a Democrat who ran as a fiscal conservative remaining year, tried to evict them, only to be stymied by local Democratic district attorney and mayor. Occupy Albany referred to as Cuomo "Gov. 1 Percent" for opposing a millionaire tax and saying it would pressure employers out of state.
Meanwhile the Democratic Party that Cuomo heads and his progressive allies persevered to push for a new millionaire tax to keep away from greater cuts to schooling and fitness care.
In November, Cuomo made a tough left and pushed for the millionaire tax expand exceeded Wednesday that includes a modest, but uncommon center class tax break. The package deal additionally supplied greater spending for jobs programs.
"My job as governor is to make the high-quality decision at the time to meet the wishes of the kingdom at the time," Cuomo stated Wednesday.
"You're seeing it play out on university campuses," stated the California nation Senate's Democratic leader, Darrell Steinberg of Sacramento. "You're seeing it play out in different communities during California. There's a actual sense that the pendulum in terms of the way we have had to deal with these finances deficits, has long past too far."
But whilst there can also be an immediately payoff in cash and politics, the long-term knowledge of soaking the rich has long been questioned.
"As many states face an increasing number of giant price range shortfalls that are often related to financial cycles, leaning on high-income earners and small groups to choose up a disproportionate quantity of the invoice raises serious fairness concerns and is bad for government revenue stability," said Scott Drenkard, an analyst with the Tax Foundation.
He notes many businesses, ninety four percent of which file as individuals, and high-income earners have the most unstable income. If the financial system continues to slip, they will have less revenue and that should further damage organizations or immediate them to flee.
New York and California already share some other distinction: They have skilled some of the biggest flight of taxpayers from 1999 to 2009 and have tax buildings regarded amongst the least beautiful to businesses, according to the Tax Foundation.
"It reminds me of the Bob Dylan song, you don't want a weatherman to recognize which way the wind is blowing," stated Doug Muzzio, a Baruch College politics professor in New York City. He stated continuing fiscal crisis and the Occupy Wall Street may want to pressure the identical consideration elsewhere.
"Without any actual evidence without for what I've viewed here, I would suppose that the different states almost forever will have to examine it," he said.
Associated Press author Judy Lin contributed to this document from Sacramento, and AP author Michael Virtanen contributed from Albany.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire
Copyright 2011 Associated Press
All Rights Reserved