6 of 8 DOCUMENTS
Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)
November 8, 2011 Tuesday
Jackson City Council likely to supply Occupiers 24/7 Smith Park permission
BYLINE: Ted Carter
SECTION: NEWS
LENGTH: 321 words


Occupy Jackson protesters may additionally find the majority of Jackson City Council participants receptive to giving them extraordinary permission to remain in Smith Park around the clock, for that reason ending the nightly migrations to the sidewalk on the west side of Congress Street.
The Occupy Jackson group, getting into its 2d month in the park, had planned to remain in the park in a single day last Saturday and risk arrest for violating a coverage that forbids traffic in town parks from nightfall to dawn. Instead, the Occupiers determined they would remain in the park however go away if police instructed them to.
They sketch to march from Smith Park to City Hall for the council's 6 p.m. meeting on Nov. 15. There, they will ask for permission to continue to be in the park 24 hours a day. If no longer granted, they would stay in a single day and threat arrest.
They can also now not have to, however. Councilman Tony Yarber said he believes a majority of the council sees the protests as a "social justice" purpose and would be receptive to granting permission to remain in the park.
Chris Mims, spokesman for Mayor Harvey Johnson, stated he has now not mentioned the count with Johnson but expects the mayor would go along with anything the council decides.
Yarber stated a specific exception to the hours rule would be best, hence defending a rule set by means of the city's permit division as a way to guard the town from liabilities for accidents that may happen in the park at night.
"We want to set down and outline their unique expectations and set conditions," he said.
Yarber, an educator, motivational speaker and business coach, said he admires the Occupy stand and would in all likelihood be "involved at some level" if he were no longer a public official.
The protesters in Jackson and in parks throughout the state have mentioned a host of reasons for their motion but name themselves the "99%" that have been shorted by the nation's monetary machine and economic policies. Income inequality is a criticism often heard from the protesters.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
DOCUMENT-TYPE: Government activity
PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper
Copyright 2011 Dolan Media Newswires